1. The role of oestrogen therapy in reducing risk of Alzheimer's disease: systematic review.
Abstract: Studies have shown a relationship between oestrogen and Alzheimer's disease. However, there is neither clear nor strong evidence on the use of oestrogen-only therapy in reducing the risk of Alzheimer's disease.

2. Primary health care providers knowledge of dementia and cognitive assessment tools for elderly populations in Southeast Nigeria: A pilot survey.
Abstract: Primary health care remains the widely available first point of medical care in Nigeria and in other low- and middle-income countries. Recognizing the rising prevalence of dementia in these settings, primary healthcare providers should be trained on cognitive assessment. However, little is known about the current Nigerian primary healthcare providers' knowledge of dementia, cognitive assessment tools, and use in elderly populations. The aim of this study was to evaluate primary healthcare providers' knowledge of dementia and cognitive assessment tools in Southeast Nigeria in preparation for the introduction of digital tablet-based assessment tool.

3. Systems pharmacology and multi-scale mechanism of Enicostema axillare bioactives in treating Alzheimer disease.
Abstract: As a progressive neurological disease with increased morbidity and mortality, Alzheimer Disease (AD) is characterized by neuron damage that controls memory and mental functions. Enicostema axillare (EA), an herb with a history of combativeness and effectiveness in treating Rheumatoid Arthritis, Cancer, and Diabetes, is used in Indian folk medicine from a holistic point of view. Though the herb is used for many illnesses, the molecular mechanism of its bioactive on AD has not been deciphered by intricate research. A unique pharmacology approach based on ADME drug screening and targeting, pathway enrichment (GO and KEGG), and network pharmacology, was established to explore the molecular mechanisms of E. axillare (EA) bioactive compounds for the treatment of AD. In brief, we bring to light the three active compounds of EA and seven potential molecular targets of AD, which are mainly implicated in four signaling pathways, i.e., MAPK, Apoptosis, neurodegeneration, and the TNF pathway. Moreover, the network analysis of the active compounds, molecular targets, and their pathways reveals the pharmacological nature of the compounds. Further, molecular docking studies were carried out to explore the interactions between the EA bioactive compounds and the targets and examine the binding affinity. The outcome of the work reflects the potential therapeutic effects of the compounds for treating AD through the modulation of the key proteins, which further corroborates the reliability of our network pharmacology analysis. This study not only helps in understanding the molecular mechanism of the drugs but also helps in finding and sorting new drugs for the treatment of AD, and other complex diseases through modern medicine.

4. Association Between Serum Neurofilament Light Chain and Cognitive Performance Among Older Adults in the United States: A Cross-Sectional Study.
Abstract: Serum neurofilament light chain (sNfL) is an emerging biomarker of neuronal damage in several neurological disorders. Its association with cognitive function in the general US population aged 60 years and above is unknown. The aim of this study was to investigate the correlation between sNfL and cognitive function in the general US population aged 60 and above.

5. A Cell-Penetrant Peptide Disrupting the Transcription Factor CP2c Complexes Induces Cancer-Specific Synthetic Lethality.
Abstract: Despite advances in precision oncology, cancer remains a global public health issue. In this report, proof-of-principle evidence is presented that a cell-penetrable peptide (ACP52C) dissociates transcription factor CP2c complexes and induces apoptosis in most CP2c oncogene-addicted cancer cells through transcription activity-independent mechanisms. CP2cs dissociated from complexes directly interact with and degrade YY1, leading to apoptosis via the MDM2-p53 pathway. The liberated CP2cs also inhibit TDP2, causing intrinsic genome-wide DNA strand breaks and subsequent catastrophic DNA damage responses. These two mechanisms are independent of cancer driver mutations but are hindered by high MDM2 p60 expression. However, resistance to ACP52C mediated by MDM2 p60 can be sensitized by CASP2 inhibition. Additionally, derivatives of ACP52C conjugated with fatty acid alone or with a CASP2 inhibiting peptide show improved pharmacokinetics and reduced cancer burden, even in ACP52C-resistant cancers. This study enhances the understanding of ACP52C-induced cancer-specific apoptosis induction and supports the use of ACP52C in anticancer drug development.

6. Fluoroethylnormemantine (FENM) shows synergistic protection in combination with a sigma-1 receptor agonist in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Fluoroethylnormemantine (FENM) is a Memantine derivative with anti-amnesic and neuroprotective activities showed in the Aβ25-35 pharmacological mouse model of Alzheimer's disease (AD). As AD is a complex multi-factorial neurodegenerative pathology, combination therapies relying on drugs acting through different pathways, have been suggested to more adequately address neuroprotection. As several agonists of the sigma-1 receptor (S1R), an intracellular chaperone, are presently in phase 2 or 3 clinical trials in neurodegenetrative diseases including AD, we examined the potentialities of S1R drug-based combinations with FENM, or Memantine. Aβ25-35-treated mice were treated with S1R agonists (PRE-084, Igmesine, Cutamesine) and/or FENM, or Memantine, during 7 days after intracerebroventricular administration of oligomerized Aβ25-35. Mice were then tested for spatial short-term memory on day 8 and non-spatial long-term memory on days 9-10, using the spontaneous alternation or passive avoidance tests, respectively. The FENM or Memantine combination with Donepezil, that non-selectively inhibits acetylcholinesterase and activates S1R, was also tested. The efficacy of combinations using maximal non-active or minimal active doses of S1R agonist or FENM was analyzed using calculations of the combination index, based on simple isobologram representation. Data showed that most of the FENM-based combinations led to synergistic protection against Aβ25-35-induced learning deficits, for both long- and short-term memory responses, with a higher efficiency on the latter. Memantine led to synergistic combination in short-term memory but poorly in long-term memory responses, with either PRE-084 or Donepezil. These study showed that drug combinations based on FENM and S1R agonists may lead to highly effective and synergistic protection in AD, particularly on short-term memory.

7. Thirty Years of Global Deep Brain Stimulation: "Plus ça change, plus c'est la même chose"?
Abstract: The advent of deep brain stimulation (DBS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) for Parkinson's disease 30 years ago has ushered a global breakthrough of DBS as a universal method for therapy and research in wide areas of neurology and psychiatry. The literature of the last three decades has described numerous concepts and practices of DBS, often branded as novelties or discoveries. However, reading the contemporary publications often elicits a sense of déjà vu in relation to several methods, attributes, and practices of DBS. Here, we review various applications and techniques of the modern-era DBS and compare them with practices of the past.

8. Spectrum-effect relationship analysis based on HPLC-FT-ICR-MS and multivariate statistical analysis to reveal the pharmacodynamic substances of Ling-Gui-Zhu-Gan decoction on Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) threatens elderly human health and still lacks effective treatment. Our previous work showed that LGZGD possessed a neuroprotective effect on the Aβ25-35-induced neurotoxicity in differentiated PC12 cells, indicating that LGZGD may be a potential drug for treatment of AD. However, its pharmacodynamic substances which show anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant stress activities are still unrevealed. This research aims to reveal the pharmacodynamic substances of LGZGD on Aβ25-35-induced PC12 cell model of AD based on a spectrum-effect relationship study by using HPLC-FT-ICR-MS method and multivariate statistical analysis. Firstly, the chemical composition spectra of different combinations of LGZGD were recorded by HPLC-FT-ICR MS. Subsequently, Aβ25-35-induced PC12 cell model of AD was established and pharmacodynamic experiments were conducted to evaluate their anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidant activities, respectively. Finally, the potential pharmacodynamic substances were screened out through spectrum-effect relationship study accompanied by multivariate statistical analysis including bivariate correlation analysis (BCA), grey relational analysis (GRA), principal component analysis (PCA), partial least squares regression analysis (PLSR). As a result, a total of 96 chemical consistents in different combinations of LGZGD were discovered. Among them, 7 components such as isoglabrolide, licorice saponin E2, licorice saponin N2 and licoisoflavanone were directly linked with the anti-inflammatory effects, and 14 constituents such as tumulosic acid, polyporenic acid C, dehydrotumulosic acid, dehydropachymic acid, and pachymic acid were directly correlated with the anti-oxidative stress activities. In conclusion, we combined the HPLC-FT-ICR-MS spectra with pharmacodynamic indicators to develop the spectrum-effect relationships of LGZGD for the first time, and successfully revealed its potential pharmacodynamic substances in the treatment of AD from the anti-inflammatory and antioxidant pathways in the cell model.

9. Molecular mechanism and potential therapeutic targets of necroptosis and ferroptosis in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD), a neurodegenerative condition, is defined by neurofibrillary tangles, amyloid plaques, and gradual cognitive decline. Regardless of the advances in understanding AD's pathogenesis and progression, its causes are still contested, and there are currently no efficient therapies for the illness. The post-mortem analyses revealed widespread neuronal loss in multiple brain regions in AD, evidenced by a decrease in neuronal density and correlated with the disease's progression and cognitive deterioration. AD's neurodegeneration is complicated, and different types of neuronal cell death, alone or in combination, play crucial roles in this process. Recently, the involvement of non-apoptotic programmed cell death in the neurodegenerative mechanisms of AD has received a lot of attention. Aberrant activation of necroptosis and ferroptosis, two newly discovered forms of regulated non-apoptotic cell death, is thought to contribute to neuronal cell death in AD. In this review, we first address the main features of necroptosis and ferroptosis, cellular signaling cascades, and the mechanisms involved in AD pathology. Then, we discuss the latest therapies targeting necroptosis and ferroptosis in AD animal/cell models and human research to provide vital information for AD treatment.

10. Oligonol ameliorates liver function and brain function in the 5 × FAD mouse model: transcriptional and cellular analysis.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common neurodegenerative disease worldwide and is accompanied by memory deficits, personality changes, anxiety, depression, and social difficulties. For treatment of AD, many researchers have attempted to find medicinal resources with high effectiveness and without side effects. Oligonol is a low molecular weight polypeptide derived from lychee fruit extract. We investigated the effects of oligonol in 5 × FAD transgenic AD mice, which developed severe amyloid pathology, through behavioral tests (Barnes maze, marble burying, and nestle shredding) and molecular experiments. Oligonol treatment attenuated blood glucose levels and increased the antioxidant response in the livers of 5 × FAD mice. Moreover, the behavioral score data showed improvements in anxiety, depressive behavior, and cognitive impairment following a 2-month course of orally administered oligonol. Oligonol treatment not only altered the circulating levels of cytokines and adipokines in 5 × FAD mice, but also significantly enhanced the mRNA and protein levels of antioxidant enzymes and synaptic plasticity in the brain cortex and hippocampus. Therefore, we highlight the therapeutic potential of oligonol to attenuate neuropsychiatric problems and improve memory deficits in the early stage of AD.

11. A New Framework for Dementia Nomenclature.
Abstract: Nomenclature in the field of neurodegenerative diseases presents a challenging problem. Inconsistent use of terms such as Alzheimer disease and dementia has compromised progress in clinical care, research, and development of therapeutics. Dementia-associated stigma further contributes to inconsistent and imprecise language. The result is a lack of clarity that produces confusion with patients and the general public and presents communication challenges among researchers. Therefore, the Advisory Council on Research, Care, and Services of the National Plan to Address Alzheimer's Disease authorized a committee to make recommendations for improvement.

12. Cyanidin Ameliorates Bisphenol A-Induced Alzheimer's Disease Pathology by Restoring Wnt/β-Catenin Signaling Cascade: an In Vitro Study.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder causing memory loss and cognitive decline, linked to amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaques and hyperphosphorylated tau protein accumulation in the brain. Environmental pollutant bisphenol A (BPA) has been implicated in AD pathology due to its neurotoxic effects. This study aims to evaluate cyanidin from flower bracts of Musa acuminata Colla (red variety; AAA group) for its neuroprotective properties against BPA-induced AD pathology. The extraction of cyanidin was optimized using 70% ethanol in acidified water, showing promising anti-acetylcholinesterase activity. Cyanidin was effectively purified from the resultant extract and characterized using spectroscopic techniques. Two gradient doses of cyanidin (90 and 10 µg/ml) were determined based on cell viability assay. The role of cyanidin in promoting nerve growth and differentiation was assessed in PC12 cells for up to 72 h. A discernible and statistically significant difference was assessed in neurite extension at both doses at 72 h, followed by pre-treatment with cyanidin. BPA stimulation significantly increased the p-tau expression compared to the control (p < 0.0001). Pre-treatment with cyanidin reduced the tau expression; however, a significant difference was observed compared to control cells (p = 0.0003). Cyanidin significantly enhanced the mRNA expression of Wnt3a (p < 0.0001), β-catenin (p = 0.0004), and NeuroD1 (p = 0.0289), and decreased the expression of WIF1(p = 0.0040) and DKK1 (p < 0.0001), which are Wnt antagonist when compared to cells stimulated with BPA. Conclusively, our finding suggests that cyanidin could agonize nerve growth factor and promote neuronal differentiation, reduce tau-hyperphosphorylation by restoring the Wnt/β-catenin signaling cascade, and thereby render its neuroprotective potential against BPA-induced AD pathology.

13. Dual-mode transfer response based on electrochemical and fluorescence signals for the detection of amyloid-beta oligomers (AβO).
Abstract: An aptamer sensor has been developed utilizing a dual-mode and stimuli-responsive strategy for quantitative detection of AβO (amyloid-beta oligomers) through simultaneous electrochemical and fluorescence detection. To achieve this, we employed UIO-66-NH2 as a carrier container to load MB (Methylene Blue), and Fe3O4 MNPs (iron oxide magnetic nanoparticles) with aptamer (ssDNA-Fe3O4 MNPs) fixed on their surface for biological gating. The ssDNA-Fe3O4 MNPs were immobilized onto the surface of UIO-66-NH2 through hydrogen bonding between the aptamer and the -NH2 group on the surface of UIO-66-NH2, thereby encapsulating MB and forming ssDNA-Fe3O4@MB@UIO-66-NH2. During the detection of AβO, the aptamer selectively reacted with AβO to form the AβO-ssDNA-Fe3O4 complex, leading to its detachment from the surface of UIO-66-NH2. This detachment facilitated the release of MB, enabling its electrochemical detection. Simultaneously, the AβO-ssDNA-Fe3O4 complex was efficiently collected and separated using a magnet after leaving the container's surface. Furthermore, the addition of NaOH facilitated the disconnection of biotin modifications at the 3' end of the aptamer from the avidin modifications on the Fe3O4 MNPs. Consequently, the aptamer detached from the surface of Fe3O4 MNPs, resulting in the restoration of fluorescence intensity of FAM (fluorescein-5'-carboxamidite) modified at its 5' end for fluorescence detection. The dual-mode sensor exhibited significantly enhanced differential pulse voltammetry signals and fluorescence intensity compared to those in the absence of AβO. The sensor demonstrated a wide detection range of 10 fM to 10 μM, with a detection limit of 3.4 fM. It displayed excellent performance in detecting actual samples and holds promising prospects for early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.

14. The effects of different acetylcholinesterase inhibitors on EEG patterns in patients with Alzheimer's disease: A systematic review.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder and the most common type of dementia. The early diagnosis of AD is an important factor for the control of AD progression. Electroencephalography (EEG) can be used for early diagnosis of AD. Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEIs) are also used for the amelioration of AD symptoms. In this systematic review, we reviewed the effect of different AChEIs including donepezil, rivastigmine, tacrine, physostigmine, and galantamine on EEG patterns in patients with AD.

15. Pathological and physiological functional cross-talks of α-synuclein and tau in the central nervous system.
Abstract: α-Synuclein and tau are abundant multifunctional brain proteins that are mainly expressed in the presynaptic and axonal compartments of neurons, respectively. Previous works have revealed that intracellular deposition of α-synuclein and/or tau causes many neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Despite intense investigation, the normal physiological functions and roles of α-synuclein and tau are still unclear, owing to the fact that mice with knockout of either of these proteins do not present apparent phenotypes. Interestingly, the co-occurrence of α-synuclein and tau aggregates was found in post-mortem brains with synucleinopathies and tauopathies, some of which share similarities in clinical manifestations. Furthermore, the direct interaction of α-synuclein with tau is considered to promote the fibrillization of each of the proteins in vitro and in vivo. On the other hand, our recent findings have revealed that α-synuclein and tau are cooperatively involved in brain development in a stage-dependent manner. These findings indicate strong cross-talk between the two proteins in physiology and pathology. In this review, we provide a summary of the recent findings on the functional roles of α-synuclein and tau in the physiological conditions and pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. A deep understanding of the interplay between α-synuclein and tau in physiological and pathological conditions might provide novel targets for clinical diagnosis and therapeutic strategies to treat neurodegenerative diseases.

16. Genetic and epigenetic targets of natural dietary compounds as anti-Alzheimer's agents.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder and the most common cause of dementia that principally affects older adults. Pathogenic factors, such as oxidative stress, an increase in acetylcholinesterase activity, mitochondrial dysfunction, genotoxicity, and neuroinflammation are present in this syndrome, which leads to neurodegeneration. Neurodegenerative pathologies such as Alzheimer's disease are considered late-onset diseases caused by the complex combination of genetic, epigenetic, and environmental factors. There are two main types of Alzheimer's disease, known as familial Alzheimer's disease (onset < 65 years) and late-onset or sporadic Alzheimer's disease (onset ≥ 65 years). Patients with familial Alzheimer's disease inherit the disease due to rare mutations on the amyloid precursor protein (APP), presenilin 1 and 2 (PSEN1 and PSEN2) genes in an autosomal-dominantly fashion with closely 100% penetrance. In contrast, a different picture seems to emerge for sporadic Alzheimer's disease, which exhibits numerous non-Mendelian anomalies suggesting an epigenetic component in its etiology. Importantly, the fundamental pathophysiological mechanisms driving Alzheimer's disease are interfaced with epigenetic dysregulation. However, the dynamic nature of epigenetics seems to open up new avenues and hope in regenerative neurogenesis to improve brain repair in Alzheimer's disease or following injury or stroke in humans. In recent years, there has been an increase in interest in using natural products for the treatment of neurodegenerative illnesses such as Alzheimer's disease. Through epigenetic mechanisms, such as DNA methylation, non-coding RNAs, histone modification, and chromatin conformation regulation, natural compounds appear to exert neuroprotective effects. While we do not purport to cover every in this work, we do attempt to illustrate how various phytochemical compounds regulate the epigenetic effects of a few Alzheimer's disease-related genes.

17. Correlation between the gut microbiome and neurodegenerative diseases: a review of metagenomics evidence.
Abstract: A growing body of evidence suggests that the gut microbiota contributes to the development of neurodegenerative diseases via the microbiota-gut-brain axis. As a contributing factor, microbiota dysbiosis always occurs in pathological changes of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. High-throughput sequencing technology has helped to reveal that the bidirectional communication between the central nervous system and the enteric nervous system is facilitated by the microbiota's diverse microorganisms, and for both neuroimmune and neuroendocrine systems. Here, we summarize the bioinformatics analysis and wet-biology validation for the gut metagenomics in neurodegenerative diseases, with an emphasis on multi-omics studies and the gut virome. The pathogen-associated signaling biomarkers for identifying brain disorders and potential therapeutic targets are also elucidated. Finally, we discuss the role of diet, prebiotics, probiotics, postbiotics and exercise interventions in remodeling the microbiome and reducing the symptoms of neurodegenerative diseases.

18. Molecular Modelling of Resveratrol Derivatives with SIRT1 for the Stimulation of Deacetylase Activity.
Abstract: Resveratrol is a polyphenol that is found in plants and has been proposed to have a potential therapeutic effect through the activation of SIRT1, which is a crucial member of the mammalian NAD+-dependent deacetylases. However, how its activity is enhanced toward specific substrates by resveratrol derivatives has not been studied. This study aimed to evaluate the types of interaction of resveratrol and its derivatives with SIRT1 as the target protein, as well as to find out the best ligand with the strangest interaction with SIRT1.

19. Synaptic proteins in neuron-derived extracellular vesicles as biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease: novel methodology and clinical proof of concept.
Abstract: Blood biomarkers can improve drug development for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and its treatment. Neuron-derived extracellular vesicles (NDEVs) in plasma offer a minimally invasive platform for developing novel biomarkers that may be used to monitor the diverse pathogenic processes involved in AD. However, NDEVs comprise only a minor fraction of circulating extracellular vesicles (EVs). Most published studies have leveraged the L1 cell adhesion molecule (L1CAM) for NDEV immunocapture. We aimed to develop and optimize an alternative, highly specific immunoaffinity method to enrich blood NDEVs for biomarker development.

20. Chronic pain is a risk factor for incident Alzheimer's disease: a nationwide propensity-matched cohort using administrative data.
Abstract: Chronic pain (CP) is one of the most disabling conditions in the elderly and seems to be a risk factor for the development of Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD). Only one study, using national administrative health databases, assessed and demonstrated that chronic pain (all types of pain) was a risk factor for dementia, but without assessing the impact of pain medications.

21. Adherence type impacts completion rates of frequent mobile cognitive assessments among older adults with and without cognitive impairment.
Abstract: Background Prior to a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, many individuals experience cognitive and behavioral fluctuations that are not detected during a single session of traditional neuropsychological assessment. Mobile applications now enable high-frequency cognitive data to be collected remotely, introducing new opportunities and challenges. Emerging evidence suggests cognitively impaired older adults are capable of completing mobile assessments frequently, but no study has observed whether completion rates vary by assessment frequency or adherence type. Methods Thirty-three older adults were recruited from the Boston University Alzheimer's Disease Research Center (mean age = 73.5 years; 27.3% cognitively impaired; 57.6% female; 81.8% White, 18.2% Black). Participants remotely downloaded and completed the DANA Brain Vital application on their own mobile devices throughout the study. The study schedule included seventeen assessments to be completed over the course of a year. Specific periods during which assessments were expected to be completed were defined as subsegments, while segments consisted of multiple subsegments. The first segment included three subsegments to be completed within one week, the second segment included weekly subsegments and spanned three weeks, and the third and fourth segments included monthly subsegments spanning five and six months, respectively. Three distinct adherence types - subsegment adherence , segment adherence , and cumulative adherence - were examined to determine how completion rates varied depending on assessment frequency and adherence type. Results Adherence type significantly impacted whether the completion rates declined. When utilizing subsegment adherence , the completion rate significantly declined (p = 0.05) during the fourth segment. However, when considering completion rates from the perspective of segment adherence , a decline in completion rate was not observed. Overall adherence rates increased as adherence parameters were broadened from subsegment adherence (60.6%) to segment adherence (78.8%), to cumulative adherence (90.9%). Conclusions Older adults, including those with cognitive impairment, are able to complete remote cognitive assessments at a high-frequency, but may not necessarily adhere to prescribed schedules.

22. Genetic overlap between Alzheimer's disease and immune-mediated diseases: An atlas of shared genetic determinants and biological convergence.
Abstract: The occurrence of immune disease comorbidities in Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been observed in both epidemiological and molecular studies, suggesting a neuroinflammatory basis in AD. However, their shared genetic components have not been systematically studied. Here, we composed an atlas of the shared genetic associations between 11 immune-mediated diseases and AD by analyzing genome-wide association studies (GWAS) summary statistics. Our results unveiled a significant genetic overlap between AD and 11 individual immune-mediated diseases despite negligible genetic correlations, suggesting a complex shared genetic architecture distributed across the genome. The shared loci between AD and immune-mediated diseases implicated several genes, including GRAMD1B , FUT2 , ADAMTS4, HBEGF, WNT3, TSPAN14, DHODH, ABCB9 and TNIP1 , all of which are protein-coding genes and thus potential drug targets. Top biological pathways enriched with these identified shared genes were related to the immune system and cell adhesion. In addition, in silico single-cell analyses showed enrichment of immune and brain cells, including neurons and microglia. In summary, our results suggest a genetic relationship between AD and the 11 immune-mediated diseases, pinpointing the existence of a shared however non-causal genetic basis. These identified protein-coding genes have the potential to serve as a novel path to therapeutic interventions for both AD and immune-mediated diseases and their comorbidities.

23. Visibility graph analysis for brain: scoping review.
Abstract: In the past two decades, network-based analysis has garnered considerable attention for analyzing time series data across various fields. Time series data can be transformed into graphs or networks using different methods, with the visibility graph (VG) being a widely utilized approach. The VG holds extensive applications in comprehending, identifying, and predicting specific characteristics of time series data. Its practicality extends to domains such as medicine, economics, meteorology, tourism, and others. This research presents a scoping review of scholarly articles published in reputable English-language journals and conferences, focusing on VG-based analysis methods related to brain disorders. The aim is to provide a foundation for further and future research endeavors, beginning with an introduction to the VG and its various types. To achieve this, a systematic search and refinement of relevant articles were conducted in two prominent scientific databases: Google Scholar and Scopus. A total of 51 eligible articles were selected for a comprehensive analysis of the topic. These articles categorized based on publication year, type of VG used, rationale for utilization, machine learning algorithms employed, frequently occurring keywords, top authors and universities, evaluation metrics, applied network properties, and brain disorders examined, such as Epilepsy, Alzheimer's disease, Autism, Alcoholism, Sleep disorders, Fatigue, Depression, and other related conditions. Moreover, there are recommendations for future advancements in research, which involve utilizing cutting-edge techniques like graph machine learning and deep learning. Additionally, the exploration of understudied medical conditions such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and Parkinson's disease is also suggested.

24. Recruitment methods and yield rates for a multisite clinical trial exploring risk reduction for Alzheimer's disease (rrAD).
Abstract: The risk reduction for Alzheimer's disease (rrAD) trial was a multisite clinical trial to assess exercise and intensive vascular pharmacological treatment on cognitive function in community-dwelling older adults at increased risk for Alzheimer's disease.

25. Editorial: Neuro-glia-immune communication: novel biomarkers and therapeutic targets.
Abstract: Abstract not available for PMID: 37841287

26. Melanin: a unifying theory of disease as exemplified by Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, and Lewy body dementia.
Abstract: Melanin, a ubiquitous dark pigment, plays important roles in the immune system, including scavenging reactive oxygen species formed in response to ultraviolet radiation absorption, absorbing metals, thermal regulation, drug uptake, innate immune system functions, redox, and energy transduction. Many tissue types, including brain, heart, arteries, ovaries, and others, contain melanin. Almost all cells contain precursors to melanin. A growing number of diseases in which there is a loss of melanin and/or neuromelanin are increasingly thought to have infectious etiologies, for example, Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Lewy Body Dementia (LBD), and vitiligo. AD, PD, LBD, and vitiligo have been linked with herpesvirus, which enters melanosomes and causes apoptosis, and with gut dysbiosis and inflammation. Herpesvirus is also linked with gut dysbiosis and inflammation. We theorize that under normal healthy states, melanin retains some of the energy it absorbs from electromagnetic radiation, which is then used to fuel cells, and energy from ATP is used to compliment that energy supply. We further theorize that loss of melanin reduces the energy supply of cells, which in the case of AD, PD, and LBD results in an inability to sustain immune system defenses and remove the plaques associated with the disease, which appear to be part of the immune system's attempt to eradicate the pathogens seen in these neurodegenerative diseases. In addition, in an attempt to explain why removing these plaques does not result in improvements in cognition and mood and why cognitions and moods in these individuals have ebbs and flows, we postulate that it is not the plaques that cause the cognitive symptoms but, rather, inflammation in the brain resulting from the immune system's response to pathogens. Our theory that energy retained in melanin fuels cells in an inverse relationship with ATP is supported by studies showing alterations in ATP production in relationship to melanin levels in melanomas, vitiligo, and healthy cells. Therefore, alteration of melanin levels may be at the core of many diseases. We propose regulating melanin levels may offer new avenues for treatment development.

27. Multi-pinhole collimator design in different numbers of projections for brain SPECT.
Abstract: High resolution and sensitivity brain SPECT is promising for the accurate diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). Multi-pinhole (MPH) collimators with a good performance in imaging small field-of-view (FOV) could be better used for brain SPECT. In this study, we aim to evaluate the impact of varying the number of pinholes and the number of projections on the performance of MPH brain SPECT.

28. App-based assessment of memory functions in patients after transfemoral aortic valve replacement.
Abstract: Transfemoral aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is the standard treatment for elderly patients with aortic valve stenosis. Although safe and well-established, there is a risk of intraprocedural hemodynamic instability and silent cerebral embolism, which can lead to a decline in neurocognitive function and dementia. In clinical practice, comprehensive cognitive testing is difficult to perform. AI-assisted digital applications may help to optimize diagnosis and monitoring.

29. Landscape of Phase II Trials in Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Drug development in Alzheimer's disease (AD) over the past two decades has had high rates of failure. Novel trial designs, such as adaptive designs, have the potential to improve the efficiency of drug development in AD.

30. Multi-Site Cross-Site Inter-Rater and Test-Retest Reliability and Construct Validity of the MarkVCID White Matter Hyperintensity Growth and Regression Protocol.
Abstract: White matter hyperintensities (WMH) that occur in the setting of vascular cognitive impairment and dementia (VCID) may be dynamic increasing or decreasing volumes or stable over time. Quantifying such changes may prove useful as a biomarker for clinical trials designed to address vascular cognitive-impairment and dementia and Alzheimer's Disease.

31. Exploring Shared Biomarkers of Myocardial Infarction and Alzheimer's Disease via Single-Cell/Nucleus Sequencing and Bioinformatics Analysis.
Abstract: Patients are at increased risk of dementia, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), after myocardial infarction (MI), but the biological link between MI and AD is unclear.

32. Risk of Death from Alzheimer's Disease Associated with Brain Tumor, Glioma, and Glioblastoma.
Abstract: No study has compared the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in patients with brain tumors, gliomas, or glioblastomas with the risk in patients with other tumors.

33. Protective Effects of Rivaroxaban on White Matter Integrity and Remyelination in a Mouse Model of Alzheimer's Disease Combined with Cerebral Hypoperfusion.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by cognitive dysfunction and memory loss that is accompanied by pathological changes to white matter. Some clinical and animal research revealed that AD combined with chronic cerebral hypoperfusion (CCH) exacerbates AD progression by inducing blood-brain barrier dysfunction and fibrinogen deposition. Rivaroxaban, an anticoagulant, has been shown to reduce the rates of dementia in atrial fibrillation patients, but its effects on white matter and the underlying mechanisms are unclear.

34. A Remotely Coached Multimodal Lifestyle Intervention for Alzheimer's Disease Ameliorates Functional and Cognitive Outcomes.
Abstract: Comprehensive treatment of Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) requires not only pharmacologic treatment but also management of existing medical conditions and lifestyle modifications including diet, cognitive training, and exercise. Personalized, multimodal therapies are needed to best prevent and treat Alzheimer's disease (AD).

35. The Construction of a Multidomain Risk Model of Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementias.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) and related dementia (ADRD) risk is affected by multiple dependent risk factors; however, there is no consensus about their relative impact in the development of these disorders.

36. Memantine administration prevented chorea movement in Huntington's disease: a case report.
Abstract: Huntington's disease is an autosomal dominant inherited disorder characterized by personality changes (such as irritability and restlessness) and psychotic symptoms (such as hallucinations and delusions). When the personality changes become noticeable, involuntary movements (chorea) also develop. The disease is caused by the CAG repeat expansion in the coding region of the HTT gene, and the diagnosis is based on the presence of this expansion. However, there is currently no effective treatment for the progression of Huntington's disease and its involuntary motor symptoms. Herein, we present a case in which memantine was effective in treating the chorea movements of Huntington's disease.

37. Effects of the implementation of the dynamic silver code in the emergency department.
Abstract: Older persons accessing the Emergency Department (ED) spend more time and are at increased risk of poor outcomes. The Dynamic Silver Code (DSC), based on administrative data, predicts mortality of 75+ subjects visiting the ED.

38. Improved estimation of the risk of manic relapse by combining clinical and brain scan data.
Abstract: Estimating the risk of manic relapse could help the psychiatrist individually adjust the treatment to the risk. Some authors have attempted to estimate this risk from baseline clinical data. Still, no studies have assessed whether the estimation could improve by adding structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data. We aimed to evaluate it.

39. The mechanisms of perineuronal net abnormalities in contributing aging and neurological diseases.
Abstract: The perineuronal net (PNN) is a highly latticed extracellular matrix in the central nervous system, which is composed of hyaluronic acid, proteoglycan, hyaluronan and proteoglycan link protein (Hapln), and tenascin. PNN is predominantly distributed in GABAergic interneurons expressing Parvalbumin (PV) and plays a critical role in synaptic function, learning and memory, oxidative stress, and inflammation. In addition, PNN's structure and function are also modulated by a variety of factors, including protein tyrosine phosphatase σ (PTPσ), orthodenticle homeo-box 2 (Otx2), and erb-b2 receptor tyrosine kinase 4 (ErbB4). Glycosaminoglycan (GAG), a component of proteoglycan, also influences PNN through its sulfate mode. PNN undergoes abnormal changes during aging and in various neurological diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, autism spectrum disorder, and multiple sclerosis. Nevertheless, there is limited report on the relationship between PNN and aging or age-related neurological diseases. This review elaborates on the mechanisms governing PNN regulation and summarizes how PNN abnormalities contribute to aging and neurological diseases, offering insights for potential treatments.

40. Risk of Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementias in Persons With Glaucoma: A National Cohort Study.
Abstract: Glaucoma is a heterogeneous group of optic neuropathies that potentially may be associated with other cerebral neurodegenerative processes leading to dementia. However, prior studies have been inconsistent. We examined dementia risks following glaucoma diagnosis in a large population-based cohort.

41. In-vitro and in-silico studies of annelated 1,4,7,8-tetrahydroazocine ester derivatives as nanomolar selective inhibitors of human butyrylcholinesterase.
Abstract: Based on previous finding showing 2,3,6,11-tetrahydro-1H-azocino[4,5-b]indole as suitable scaffold of novel inhibitors of acetylcholinesterase (AChE), a main target of drugs for the treatment Alzheimer disease and related dementias, herein we investigated diverse newly and previously synthesized β-enamino esters (and ketones) derivatives of 1,4,7,8-tetrahydroazocines (and some azonines) fused with benzene, 1H-indole, 4H-chromen-4-one and pyrimidin-4(3H)-one. Twenty derivatives of diversely annelated eight-to-nine-membered azaheterocyclic ring, prepared through domino reaction of the respective tetrahydropyridine and azepine with activated alkynes, were assayed for the inhibitory activity against AChE and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE). As a major outcome, compound 7c, an alkylamino derivative of tetrahydropyrimido[4,5-d]azocine, was found to be a highly potent BChE-selective inhibitor, which showed a noncompetitive/mixed-type inhibition mechanism against human BChE with single digit nanomolar inhibition constant (Ki = 7.8 ± 0.2 nM). The four-order magnitude BChE-selectivity of 7c clearly reflects the effect of lipophilicity upon binding to the BChE binding cavity. The ChEs' inhibition data, interpreted by chemoinformatic tools and an in-depth in-silico study (molecular docking combined with molecular dynamics calculations), not only highlighted key structural factors enhancing inhibition potency and selectivity toward BChE, but also shed light on subtle differences distinguishing the binding sites of equine BChE from the recombinant human BChE. Compound 7c inhibited P-glycoprotein with IC50 of 0.27 μM, which may support its ability to permeate blood-brain barrier, and proved to be no cytotoxic in human liver cancer cell line (HepG2) at the BChE bioactive concentrations. Overall, the biological profile allows us to envision 7c as a promising template to improve design and development of BChE-selective ligands of pharmaceutical interest, including inhibitors and fluorogenic probes.

42. Small molecules targeting molecular chaperones for tau regulation: Achievements and challenges.
Abstract: Abnormal post-translational modification of microtubule-associated protein Tau (MAPT) is a prominent pathological feature in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Previous research has focused on designing small molecules to target Tau modification, aiming to restore microtubule stability and regulate Tau levels in vivo. However, progress has been hindered, and no effective Tau-targeted drugs have been successfully marketed, which urgently requires more strategies. Heat shock proteins (HSPs), especially Hsp90 and Hsp70, have been found to play a crucial role in Tau maturation and degradation. This review explores innovative approaches using small molecules that interact with the chaperone system to regulate Tau levels. We provide a comprehensive overview of the mechanisms involving HSPs and their co-chaperones in the Tau regulation cycle. Additionally, we analyze small molecules targeting these chaperone systems to modulate Tau function. By understanding the characteristics of the molecular chaperone system and its specific impact on Tau, we aim to provide a perspective that seeks to regulate Tau levels through the manipulation of the molecular chaperone system and ultimately develop effective treatments for AD.

43. Abl depletion via autophagy mediates the beneficial effects of quercetin against Alzheimer pathology across species.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease is the most common age-associated neurodegenerative disorder and the most frequent form of dementia in our society. Aging is a complex biological process concurrently shaped by genetic, dietary and environmental factors and natural compounds are emerging for their beneficial effects against age-related disorders. Besides their antioxidant activity often described in simple model organisms, the molecular mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of different dietary compounds remain however largely unknown. In the present study, we exploit the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans as a widely established model for aging studies, to test the effects of different natural compounds in vivo and focused on mechanistic aspects of one of them, quercetin, using complementary systems and assays. We show that quercetin has evolutionarily conserved beneficial effects against Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology: it prevents Amyloid beta (Aβ)-induced detrimental effects in different C. elegans AD models and it reduces Aβ-secretion in mammalian cells. Mechanistically, we found that the beneficial effects of quercetin are mediated by autophagy-dependent reduced expression of Abl tyrosine kinase. In turn, autophagy is required upon Abl suppression to mediate quercetin's protective effects against Aβ toxicity. Our data support the power of C. elegans as an in vivo model to investigate therapeutic options for AD.

44. Copper metabolism-related Genes in entorhinal cortex for Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: The pathological features of Alzheimer's disease are the formation of amyloid plaques and entanglement of nerve fibers. Studies have shown that Cu may be involved in the formation of amyloid plaques. However, their role has been controversial. The aim of this study was to explore the role of Cu in AD. We applied the "R" software for our differential analysis. Differentially expressed genes were screened using the limma package. Copper metabolism-related genes and the intersection set of differential genes with GSE5281 were searched; functional annotation was performed. The protein-protein interaction network was constructed using several modules to analyse the most significant hub genes. The hub genes were then qualified, and a database was used to screen for small-molecule AD drugs. We identified 87 DEGs. gene ontology analysis focused on homeostatic processes, response to toxic substances, positive regulation of transport, and secretion. The enriched molecular functions are mainly related to copper ion binding, molecular function regulators, protein-containing complex binding, identical protein binding and signalling receptor binding. The KEGG database is mainly involved in central carbon metabolism in various cancers, Parkinson's disease and melanoma. We identified five hub genes, FGF2, B2M, PTPRC, CD44 and SPP1, and identified the corresponding small molecule drugs. Our study identified key genes possibly related to energy metabolism in the pathological mechanism of AD and explored potential targets for AD treatment by establishing interaction networks.

45. Systematic review: fluid biomarkers and machine learning methods to improve the diagnosis from mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is often considered an early stage of dementia, with estimated rates of progression to dementia up to 80-90% after approximately 6 years from the initial diagnosis. Diagnosis of cognitive impairment in dementia is typically based on clinical evaluation, neuropsychological assessments, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers, and neuroimaging. The main goal of diagnosing MCI is to determine its cause, particularly whether it is due to Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, only a limited percentage of the population has access to etiological confirmation, which has led to the emergence of peripheral fluid biomarkers as a diagnostic tool for dementias, including MCI due to AD. Recent advances in biofluid assays have enabled the use of sophisticated statistical models and multimodal machine learning (ML) algorithms for the diagnosis of MCI based on fluid biomarkers from CSF, peripheral blood, and saliva, among others. This approach has shown promise for identifying specific causes of MCI, including AD. After a PRISMA analysis, 29 articles revealed a trend towards using multimodal algorithms that incorporate additional biomarkers such as neuroimaging, neuropsychological tests, and genetic information. Particularly, neuroimaging is commonly used in conjunction with fluid biomarkers for both cross-sectional and longitudinal studies. Our systematic review suggests that cost-effective longitudinal multimodal monitoring data, representative of diverse cultural populations and utilizing white-box ML algorithms, could be a valuable contribution to the development of diagnostic models for AD due to MCI. Clinical assessment and biomarkers, together with ML techniques, could prove pivotal in improving diagnostic tools for MCI due to AD.

46. NOX-induced oxidative stress is a primary trigger of major neurodegenerative disorders.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) causing cognitive impairment and dementia are difficult to treat due to the lack of understanding of primary initiating factors. Meanwhile, major sporadic NDDs share many risk factors and exhibit similar pathologies in their early stages, indicating the existence of common initiation pathways. Glucose hypometabolism associated with oxidative stress is one such primary, early and shared pathology, and a likely major cause of detrimental disease-associated cascades; targeting this common pathology may therefore be an effective preventative strategy for most sporadic NDDs. However, its exact cause and trigger remain unclear. Recent research suggests that early oxidative stress caused by NADPH oxidase (NOX) activation is a shared initiating mechanism among major sporadic NDDs and could prove to be the long-sought ubiquitous NDD trigger. We focus on two major NDDs - Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), as well as on acquired epilepsy which is an increasingly recognized comorbidity in NDDs. We also discuss available data suggesting the relevance of the proposed mechanisms to other NDDs. We delve into the commonalities among these NDDs in neuroinflammation and NOX involvement to identify potential therapeutic targets and gain a deeper understanding of the underlying causes of NDDs.

47. Regulation of extracellular progranulin in medial prefrontal cortex.
Abstract: Progranulin is a secreted pro-protein that has anti-inflammatory and neurotrophic effects and is necessary for maintaining lysosomal function. Mutations in progranulin (GRN) are a major cause of frontotemporal dementia. Most pathogenic GRN mutations cause progranulin haploinsufficiency, so boosting progranulin levels is a promising therapeutic strategy. Progranulin is constitutively secreted, then taken up and trafficked to lysosomes. Before being taken up from the extracellular space, progranulin interacts with receptors that may mediate anti-inflammatory and growth factor-like effects. Modifying progranulin trafficking is a viable approach to boosting progranulin, but progranulin secretion and uptake by cells in the brain is poorly understood and may involve distinct mechanisms from other parts of the body. Understanding the cell types and processes that regulate extracellular progranulin in the brain could provide insight into progranulin's mechanism of action and inform design of progranulin-boosting therapies. To address this question we used microdialysis to measure progranulin in interstitial fluid (ISF) of mouse medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). Grn+/- mice had approximately 50% lower ISF progranulin than wild-type mice, matching the reduction of progranulin in cortical tissue. Fluorescent in situ hybridization and immunofluorescence confirmed that microglia and neurons are the major progranulin-expressing cell types in the mPFC. Studies of conditional microglial (Mg-KO) and neuronal (N-KO) Grn knockout mice revealed that loss of progranulin from either cell type results in approximately 50% reduction in ISF progranulin. LPS injection (i.p.) produced an acute increase in ISF progranulin in mPFC. Depolarizing cells with KCl increased ISF progranulin, but this response was not altered in N-KO mice, indicating progranulin secretion by non-neuronal cells. Increasing neuronal activity with picrotoxin did not increase ISF progranulin. These data indicate that microglia and neurons are the source of most ISF progranulin in mPFC, with microglia likely secreting more progranulin per cell than neurons. The acute increase in ISF progranulin after LPS treatment is consistent with a role for extracellular progranulin in regulating inflammation, and may have been driven by microglia or peripheral immune cells. Finally, these data indicate that mPFC neurons engage in constitutive progranulin secretion that is not acutely changed by neuronal activity.

48. Low-moderate dose whole-brain γ-ray irradiation modulates the expressions of glial fibrillary acidic protein and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced Parkinson's disease mouse model.
Abstract: The anti-inflammatory efficacy of radiation therapy (RT) with single fractions below 1.0 Gy has been demonstrated in Alzheimer's disease mouse models. As neuroinflammation is also a major pathological feature of Parkinson's disease (PD), RT may also be effective in PD treatment. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the anti-inflammatory effect of low-moderate dose RT (LMDRT, 0.6 Gy/single dose, for 5 days) exposure in a 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP; 30 mg/kg, intraperitoneally, for 5 consecutive days)-induced PD mouse model. Importantly, LMDRT reduced the levels of glial fibrillary acidic protein and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (CD54) in the striatum region, which increased following MPTP administration. LMDRT also modulated inflammatory gene expression patterns in the substantia nigra region of the MPTP-treated mice. However, LMDRT had no direct effects on the severe loss of dopaminergic neurons and impaired motor behavior in the rotarod test. These results indicate that LMDRT has anti-inflammatory effects by modulating neuroinflammatory factors, including glial fibrillary acidic protein and intercellular adhesion molecule-1, but showed no behavioral improvements or neuroprotection in the MPTP-induced mouse model of PD.

49. Protein retention in the endoplasmic reticulum rescues Aβ toxicity in Drosophila.
Abstract: Amyloid β (Aβ) accumulation is a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease. In adult Drosophila brains, human Aβ overexpression harms climbing and lifespan. It's uncertain whether Aβ is intrinsically toxic or activates downstream neurodegeneration pathways. Our study uncovers a novel protective role against Aβ toxicity: intra-endoplasmic reticulum (ER) protein accumulation with a focus on laminin and collagen subunits. Despite high Aβ, laminin B1 (LanB1) overexpression robustly counters toxicity, suggesting a potential Aβ resistance mechanism. Other laminin subunits and collagen IV also alleviate Aβ toxicity; combining them with LanB1 augments the effect. Imaging reveals ER retention of LanB1 without altering Aβ secretion. LanB1's rescue function operates independently of the IRE1α/XBP1 ER stress response. ER-targeted GFP overexpression also mitigates Aβ toxicity, highlighting broader ER protein retention advantages. Proof-of-principle tests in murine hippocampal slices using mouse Lamb1 demonstrate ER retention in transduced cells, indicating a conserved mechanism. Though ER protein retention generally harms, it could paradoxically counter neuronal Aβ toxicity, offering a new therapeutic avenue for Alzheimer's disease.

50. Discovery of novel multifunctional ligands targeting GABA transporters, butyrylcholinesterase, β-secretase, and amyloid β aggregation as potential treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a global health problem in the medical sector that will increase over time. The limited treatment of AD leads to the search for a new clinical candidate. Considering the multifactorial nature of AD, a strategy targeting number of regulatory proteins involved in the development of the disease is an effective approach. Here, we present a discovery of new multi-target-directed ligands (MTDLs), purposely designed as GABA transporter (GAT) inhibitors, that successfully provide the inhibitory activity against butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE), β-secretase (BACE1), amyloid β aggregation and calcium channel blockade activity. The selected GAT inhibitors, 19c and 22a - N-benzylamide derivatives of 4-aminobutyric acid, displayed the most prominent multifunctional profile. Compound 19c (mGAT1 IC50 = 10 μM, mGAT4 IC50 = 12 μM and BuChE IC50 = 559 nM) possessed the highest hBACE1 and Aβ40 aggregation inhibitory activity (IC50 = 1.57 μM and 99 % at 10 μM, respectively). Additionally, it showed a decrease in both the elongation and nucleation constants of the amyloid aggregation process. In contrast compound 22a represented the highest activity and a mixed-type of eqBuChE inhibition (IC50 = 173 nM) with hBACE1 (IC50 = 9.42 μM), Aβ aggregation (79 % at 10 μM) and mGATs (mGAT1 IC50 = 30 μM, mGAT4 IC50 = 25 μM) inhibitory activity. Performed molecular docking studies described the mode of interactions with GATs and enzymatic targets. In ADMET in vitro studies both compounds showed acceptable metabolic stability and low neurotoxicity. Successfully, compounds 19c and 22a at the dose of 30 mg/kg possessed statistically significant antiamnesic properties in a mouse model of amnesia caused by scopolamine and assessed in the novel object recognition (NOR) task or the passive avoidance (PA) task.

51. Artificial intelligence for dementia prevention.
Abstract: A wide range of modifiable risk factors for dementia have been identified. Considerable debate remains about these risk factors, possible interactions between them or with genetic risk, and causality, and how they can help in clinical trial recruitment and drug development. Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) may refine understanding.

52. Book Review: Alzheimer's Disease Research: What has guided research so far and why it is high time for a paradigm shift (Christian Behl. Springer Nature, Switzerland, 2023) 661 pp.
Abstract: This is a review of a recently published book entitled 'Alzheimer's Disease Research: What has guided research so far and why it is high time for a paradigm shift' by Christian Behl, a leading contributor to the field of Alzheimer disease over the last three decades. It presents a personal viewpoint on the historical developments in dementia research and therapeutics from its early beginnings through to the current day. The conflicting hypotheses, the therapeutic trials, the successes and the failures of the vast research infrastructure devoted to dissecting the aberrant pathways underlying the inexorable progression of this ultimately fatal neurodegenerative disease are discussed. It is based, among others, on numerous personal discussions of the author with other leading researchers in the field, and thus gives this (hi)story of Alzheimer research a personal touch and spotlight on controversies that distinguishes it from other books in the field.

53. A Federated Learning Model Based on Hardware Acceleration for the Early Detection of Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive illness with a slow start that lasts many years; the disease's consequences are devastating to the patient and the patient's family. If detected early, the disease's impact and prognosis can be altered significantly. Blood biosamples are often employed in simple medical testing since they are cost-effective and easy to collect and analyze. This research provides a diagnostic model for Alzheimer's disease based on federated learning (FL) and hardware acceleration using blood biosamples. We used blood biosample datasets provided by the ADNI website to compare and evaluate the performance of our models. FL has been used to train a shared model without sharing local devices' raw data with a central server to preserve privacy. We developed a hardware acceleration approach for building our FL model so that we could speed up the training and testing procedures. The VHDL hardware description language and an Altera 10 GX FPGA are utilized to construct the hardware-accelerator approach. The results of the simulations reveal that the proposed methods achieve accuracy and sensitivity for early detection of 89% and 87%, respectively, while simultaneously requiring less time to train than other algorithms considered to be state-of-the-art. The proposed algorithms have a power consumption ranging from 35 to 39 mW, which qualifies them for use in limited devices. Furthermore, the result shows that the proposed method has a lower inference latency (61 ms) than the existing methods with fewer resources.

54. Deep Multi-Branch CNN Architecture for Early Alzheimer's Detection from Brain MRIs.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease that can cause dementia and result in a severe reduction in brain function, inhibiting simple tasks, especially if no preventative care is taken. Over 1 in 9 Americans suffer from AD-induced dementia, and unpaid care for people with AD-related dementia is valued at USD 271.6 billion. Hence, various approaches have been developed for early AD diagnosis to prevent its further progression. In this paper, we first review other approaches that could be used for the early detection of AD. We then give an overview of our dataset and propose a deep convolutional neural network (CNN) architecture consisting of 7,866,819 parameters. This model comprises three different convolutional branches, each having a different length. Each branch is comprised of different kernel sizes. This model can predict whether a patient is non-demented, mild-demented, or moderately demented with a 99.05% three-class accuracy. In summary, the deep CNN model demonstrated exceptional accuracy in the early diagnosis of AD, offering a significant advancement in the field and the potential to improve patient care.

55. Supplementation of Medium-Chain Triglycerides Combined with Docosahexaenoic Acid Inhibits Amyloid Beta Protein Deposition by Improving Brain Glucose Metabolism in APP/PS1 Mice.
Abstract: The deterioration of brain glucose metabolism predates the clinical onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Medium-chain triglycerides (MCTs) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) positively improve brain glucose metabolism and decrease the expression of AD-related proteins. However, the effects of the combined intervention are unclear. The present study explored the effects of the supplementation of MCTs combined with DHA in improving brain glucose metabolism and decreasing AD-related protein expression levels in APP/PS1 mice. The mice were assigned into four dietary treatment groups: the control group, MCTs group, DHA group, and MCTs + DHA group. The corresponding diet of the respective groups was fed to mice from the age of 3 to 11 months. The results showed that the supplementation of MCTs combined with DHA could increase serum octanoic acid (C8:0), decanoic acid (C10:0), DHA, and β-hydroxybutyrate (β-HB) levels; improve glucose metabolism; and reduce nerve cell apoptosis in the brain. Moreover, it also aided with decreasing the expression levels of amyloid beta protein (Aβ), amyloid precursor protein (APP), β-site APP cleaving enzyme-1 (BACE1), and presenilin-1 (PS1) in the brain. Furthermore, the supplementation of MCTs + DHA was significantly more beneficial than that of MCTs or DHA alone. In conclusion, the supplementation of MCTs combined with DHA could improve energy metabolism in the brain of APP/PS1 mice, thus decreasing nerve cell apoptosis and inhibiting the expression of Aβ.

56. Polyoxometalate-Decorated Gold Nanoparticles Inhibit β-Amyloid Aggregation and Cross the Blood-Brain Barrier in a µphysiological Model.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease is characterized by a combination of several neuropathological hallmarks, such as extracellular aggregates of beta amyloid (Aβ). Numerous alternatives have been studied for inhibiting Aβ aggregation but, at this time, there are no effective treatments available. Here, we developed the tri-component nanohybrid system AuNPs@POM@PEG based on gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) covered with polyoxometalates (POMs) and polyethylene glycol (PEG). In this work, AuNPs@POM@PEG demonstrated the inhibition of the formation of amyloid fibrils, showing a 75% decrease in Aβ aggregation in vitro. As it is a potential candidate for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, we evaluated the cytotoxicity of AuNPs@POM@PEG and its ability to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB). We achieved a stable nanosystem that is non-cytotoxic below 2.5 nM to human neurovascular cells. The brain permeability of AuNPs@POM@PEG was analyzed in an in vitro microphysiological model of the BBB (BBB-on-a-chip), containing 3D human neurovascular cell co-cultures and microfluidics. The results show that AuNPs@POM@PEG was able to cross the brain endothelial barrier in the chip and demonstrated that POM does not affect the barrier integrity, giving the green light to further studies into this system as a nanotherapeutic.

57. Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) in Mild Cognitive Impairment: Effects on Cognitive Functions-A Systematic Review.
Abstract: Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a non-invasive brain stimulation technique also used as a non-pharmacological intervention against cognitive impairment. The purpose of the present review was to summarize what is currently known about the effectiveness of rTMS intervention on different cognitive domains in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and to address potential neuromodulation approaches in combination with electroencephalography (EEG) and neuroimaging, especially functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). In this systematic review, we consulted three main databases (PubMed, Science Direct, and Scopus), and Google Scholar was selected for the gray literature search. The PRISMA flowchart drove the studies' inclusion. The selection process ensured that only high-quality studies were included; after removing duplicate papers, explicit ratings were given based on the quality classification as high (A), moderate (B), or low (C), considering factors such as risks of bias, inaccuracies, inconsistencies, lack of direction, and publication bias. Seven full-text articles fulfilled the stated inclusion, reporting five double-blind, randomized, sham-controlled studies, a case study, and a randomized crossover trial. The results of the reviewed studies suggested that rTMS in MCI patients is safe and effective for enhancing cognitive functions, thus making it a potential therapeutic approach for MCI patients. Changes in functional connectivity within the default mode network (DMN) after targeted rTMS could represent a valuable indicator of treatment response. Finally, high-frequency rTMS over the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) has been shown to significantly enhance cognitive functions, such as executive performance, together with the increase of functional connectivity within frontoparietal networks. The main limitations were the number of included studies and the exclusion of studies using intermittent theta-burst stimulation, used in studies on Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, neuroimaging techniques in combination with rTMS have been shown to be useful for future network-based, fMRI-guided therapeutic approaches.

58. Blood-Based Transcriptomic Biomarkers Are Predictive of Neurodegeneration Rather Than Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a growing global health crisis affecting millions and incurring substantial economic costs. However, clinical diagnosis remains challenging, with misdiagnoses and underdiagnoses being prevalent. There is an increased focus on putative, blood-based biomarkers that may be useful for the diagnosis as well as early detection of AD. In the present study, we used an unbiased combination of machine learning and functional network analyses to identify blood gene biomarker candidates in AD. Using supervised machine learning, we also determined whether these candidates were indeed unique to AD or whether they were indicative of other neurodegenerative diseases, such as Parkinson's disease (PD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Our analyses showed that genes involved in spliceosome assembly, RNA binding, transcription, protein synthesis, mitoribosomes, and NADH dehydrogenase were the best-performing genes for identifying AD patients relative to cognitively healthy controls. This transcriptomic signature, however, was not unique to AD, and subsequent machine learning showed that this signature could also predict PD and ALS relative to controls without neurodegenerative disease. Combined, our results suggest that mRNA from whole blood can indeed be used to screen for patients with neurodegeneration but may be less effective in diagnosing the specific neurodegenerative disease.

59. Frontotemporal Dementia P301L Mutation Potentiates but Is Not Sufficient to Cause the Formation of Cytotoxic Fibrils of Tau.
Abstract: The P301L mutation in tau protein is a prevalent pathogenic mutation associated with neurodegenerative frontotemporal dementia, FTD. The mechanism by which P301L triggers or facilitates neurodegeneration at the molecular level remains unclear. In this work, we examined the effect of the P301L mutation on the biochemical and biological characteristics of pathologically relevant hyperphosphorylated tau. Hyperphosphorylated P301L tau forms cytotoxic aggregates more efficiently than hyperphosphorylated wildtype tau or unphosphorylated P301L tau in vitro. Mechanistic studies establish that hyperphosphorylated P301L tau exacerbates endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-associated gene upregulation in a neuroblastoma cell line when compared to wildtype hyperphosphorylated tau treatment. Furthermore, the microtubule cytoskeleton is severely disrupted following hyperphosphorylated P301L tau treatment. A hyperphosphorylated tau aggregation inhibitor, apomorphine, also inhibits the harmful effects caused by P301L hyperphosphorylated tau. In short, the P301L single mutation within the core repeat domain of tau renders the underlying hyperphosphorylated tau more potent in eliciting ER stress and cytoskeleton damage. However, the P301L mutation alone, without hyperphosphorylation, is not sufficient to cause these phenotypes. Understanding the conditions and mechanisms whereby selective mutations aggravate the pathogenic activities of tau can provide pivotal clues on novel strategies for drug development for frontotemporal dementia and other related neurodegenerative tauopathies, including Alzheimer's disease.

60. Transferrin-Conjugated Melittin-Loaded L-Arginine-Coated Iron Oxide Nanoparticles for Mitigating Beta-Amyloid Pathology of the 5XFAD Mouse Brain.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most prevalent neurodegenerative diseases and a major contributor to dementia. Although the cause of this condition has been identified long ago as aberrant aggregations of amyloid and tau proteins, effective therapies for it remain elusive. The complexities of drug development for AD treatment are often compounded by the impermeable blood-brain barrier and low-yield brain delivery. In addition, the use of high drug concentrations to overcome this challenge may entail side effects. To address these challenges and enhance the precision of delivery into brain regions affected by amyloid aggregation, we proposed a transferrin-conjugated nanoparticle-based drug delivery system. The transferrin-conjugated melittin-loaded L-arginine-coated iron oxide nanoparticles (Tf-MeLioNs) developed in this study successfully mitigated melittin-induced cytotoxicity and hemolysis in the cell culture system. In the 5XFAD mouse brain, Tf-MeLioNs remarkably reduced amyloid plaque accumulation, particularly in the hippocampus. This study suggested Tf-LioNs as a potential drug delivery platform and Tf-MeLioNs as a candidate for therapeutic drug targeting of amyloid plaques in AD. These findings provide a foundation for further exploration and advancement in AD therapeutics.

61. Assessing Drug Administration Techniques in Zebrafish Models of Neurological Disease.
Abstract: Neurological diseases, including neurodegenerative and neurodevelopmental disorders, affect nearly one in six of the world's population. The burden of the resulting deaths and disability is set to rise during the next few decades as a consequence of an aging population. To address this, zebrafish have become increasingly prominent as a model for studying human neurological diseases and exploring potential therapies. Zebrafish offer numerous benefits, such as genetic homology and brain similarities, complementing traditional mammalian models and serving as a valuable tool for genetic screening and drug discovery. In this comprehensive review, we highlight various drug delivery techniques and systems employed for therapeutic interventions of neurological diseases in zebrafish, and evaluate their suitability. We also discuss the challenges encountered during this process and present potential advancements in innovative techniques.

62. Amyloid Precursor Protein and Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most common neurodegenerative disorders associated with age or inherited mutations. It is characterized by severe dementia in the late stages that affect memory, cognitive functions, and daily life overall. AD progression is linked to the accumulation of cytotoxic amyloid beta (Aβ) and hyperphosphorylated tau protein combined with other pathological features such as synaptic loss, defective energy metabolism, imbalances in protein, and metal homeostasis. Several treatment options for AD are under investigation, including antibody-based therapy and stem cell transplantation. Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a membrane protein considered to play a main role in AD pathology. It is known that APP in physiological conditions follows a non-amyloidogenic pathway; however, it can proceed to an amyloidogenic scenario, which leads to the generation of extracellular deleterious Aβ plaques. Not all steps of APP biogenesis are clear so far, and these questions should be addressed in future studies. AD is a complex chronic disease with many factors that contribute to disease progression.

63. Metabolomic Signatures of Alzheimer's Disease Indicate Brain Region-Specific Neurodegenerative Progression.
Abstract: Pathological mechanisms contributing to Alzheimer's disease (AD) are still elusive. Here, we identified the metabolic signatures of AD in human post-mortem brains. Using 1H NMR spectroscopy and an untargeted metabolomics approach, we identified (1) metabolomic profiles of AD and age-matched healthy subjects in post-mortem brain tissue, and (2) region-common and region-unique metabolome alterations and biochemical pathways across eight brain regions revealed that BA9 was the most affected. Phenylalanine and phosphorylcholine were mainly downregulated, suggesting altered neurotransmitter synthesis. N-acetylaspartate and GABA were upregulated in most regions, suggesting higher inhibitory activity in neural circuits. Other region-common metabolic pathways indicated impaired mitochondrial function and energy metabolism, while region-unique pathways indicated oxidative stress and altered immune responses. Importantly, AD caused metabolic changes in brain regions with less well-documented pathological alterations that suggest degenerative progression. The findings provide a new understanding of the biochemical mechanisms of AD and guide biomarker discovery for personalized risk prediction and diagnosis.

64. Deciphering the Mysterious Relationship between the Cross-Pathogenetic Mechanisms of Neurodegenerative and Oncological Diseases.
Abstract: The relationship between oncological pathologies and neurodegenerative disorders is extremely complex and is a topic of concern among a growing number of researchers around the world. In recent years, convincing scientific evidence has accumulated that indicates the contribution of a number of etiological factors and pathophysiological processes to the pathogenesis of these two fundamentally different diseases, thus demonstrating an intriguing relationship between oncology and neurodegeneration. In this review, we establish the general links between three intersecting aspects of oncological pathologies and neurodegenerative disorders, i.e., oxidative stress, epigenetic dysregulation, and metabolic dysfunction, examining each process in detail to establish an unusual epidemiological relationship. We also focus on reviewing the current trends in the research and the clinical application of the most promising chemical structures and therapeutic platforms that have a modulating effect on the above processes. Thus, our comprehensive analysis of the set of molecular determinants that have obvious cross-functional pathways in the pathogenesis of oncological and neurodegenerative diseases can help in the creation of advanced diagnostic tools and in the development of innovative pharmacological strategies.

65. Physical Exercise as Disease-Modifying Alternative against Alzheimer's Disease: A Gut-Muscle-Brain Partnership.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common cause of dementia characterized by neurodegenerative dysregulations, cognitive impairments, and neuropsychiatric symptoms. Physical exercise (PE) has emerged as a powerful tool for reducing chronic inflammation, improving overall health, and preventing cognitive decline. The connection between the immune system, gut microbiota (GM), and neuroinflammation highlights the role of the gut-brain axis in maintaining brain health and preventing neurodegenerative diseases. Neglected so far, PE has beneficial effects on microbial composition and diversity, thus providing the potential to alleviate neurological symptoms. There is bidirectional communication between the gut and muscle, with GM diversity modulation and short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) production affecting muscle metabolism and preservation, and muscle activity/exercise in turn inducing significant changes in GM composition, functionality, diversity, and SCFA production. This gut-muscle and muscle-gut interplay can then modulate cognition. For instance, irisin, an exercise-induced myokine, promotes neuroplasticity and cognitive function through BDNF signaling. Irisin and muscle-generated BDNF may mediate the positive effects of physical activity against some aspects of AD pathophysiology through the interaction of exercise with the gut microbial ecosystem, neural plasticity, anti-inflammatory signaling pathways, and neurogenesis. Understanding gut-muscle-brain interconnections hold promise for developing strategies to promote brain health, fight age-associated cognitive decline, and improve muscle health and longevity.

66. The Role of Adipokines in the Pathologies of the Central Nervous System.
Abstract: Adipokines are protein hormones secreted by adipose tissue in response to disruptions in physiological homeostasis within the body's systems. The regulatory functions of adipokines within the central nervous system (CNS) are multifaceted and intricate, and they have been identified in a number of pathologies. Therefore, specific adipokines have the potential to be used as biomarkers for screening purposes in neurological dysfunctions. The systematic review presented herein focuses on the analysis of the functions of various adipokines in the pathogenesis of CNS diseases. Thirteen proteins were selected for analysis through scientific databases. It was found that these proteins can be identified within the cerebrospinal fluid either by their ability to modify their molecular complex and cross the blood-brain barrier or by being endogenously produced within the CNS itself. As a result, this can correlate with their measurability during pathological processes, including Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, multiple sclerosis, depression, or brain tumors.

67. Anti-Amyloid Therapies for Alzheimer's Disease and the Amyloid Cascade Hypothesis.
Abstract: Over the past 30 years, the majority of (pre)clinical efforts to find an effective therapy for Alzheimer's disease (AD) focused on clearing the β-amyloid peptide (Aβ) from the brain since, according to the amyloid cascade hypothesis, the peptide was (and it is still considered by many) the pathogenic determinant of this neurodegenerative disorder. However, as reviewed in this article, results from the numerous clinical trials that have tested anti-Aβ therapies to date indicate that this peptide plays a minor role in the pathogenesis of AD. Indeed, even Aducanumab and Lecanemab, the two antibodies recently approved by the FDA for AD therapy, as well as Donanemab showed limited efficacy on cognitive parameters in phase III clinical trials, despite their capability of markedly lowering Aβ brain load. Furthermore, preclinical evidence demonstrates that Aβ possesses several physiological functions, including memory formation, suggesting that AD may in part be due to a loss of function of this peptide. Finally, it is generally accepted that AD could be the result of many molecular dysfunctions, and therefore, if we keep chasing only Aβ, it means that we cannot see the forest for the trees.

68. Chronic Administration of Ion Channel Blockers Impact Microglia Morphology and Function in a Murine Model of Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: As the population ages, a high prevalence of multimorbidity will affect the way physicians need to think about drug interactions. With microglia's important involvement in the pathology and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), understanding whether systemically administered drugs intended for other affections could impact microglia function, already impacted by the presence of beta-amyloid, is important. The aim of this study was to evaluate morphological changes of microglia, using in vivo 2-photon laser scanning microscopy, in a murine model of AD under systemic administration of sodium or calcium ion channel blockers in order to establish potential effects that these drugs might have on microglia under neuro-inflammatory conditions. A total of 30 mice (age 14-16 weeks, weight 20-25 g) were used, with 25 APP randomly divided into three groups. The remaining animals were CX3CR1GFP/GFP male mice (n = 5) used as WT controls. After baseline behavior testing, all animals received daily intraperitoneal injections for 30 days according to the assigned group [WT (n = 5), Control (n = 5), Carbamazepine (n = 10), and Verapamil (n = 10)]. The results showed that the Verapamil treatment improved short-term memory and enhanced exploratory behavior in APP mice. The Carbamazepine treatment also improved short-term memory but did not elicit significant changes in anxiety-related behavior. Both Verapamil and Carbamazepine reduced the surveillance speed of microglia processes and changed microglia morphology in the cortex compared to the Control group. Due to their complex molecular machinery, microglia are potentially affected by drugs that do not target them specifically, and, as such, investigating these interactions could prove beneficial in our management of neurodegenerative pathologies.

69. Mitochondria and Oxidative Stress as a Link between Alzheimer's Disease and Diabetes Mellitus.
Abstract: This review is devoted to the problems of the common features linking metabolic disorders and type 2 diabetes with the development of Alzheimer's disease. The pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease closely intersects with the mechanisms of type 2 diabetes development, and an important risk factor for both pathologies is aging. Common pathological mechanisms include both factors in the development of oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, insulin resistance, and amyloidosis, as well as impaired mitochondrial dysfunctions and increasing cell death. The currently available drugs for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and Alzheimer's disease have limited therapeutic efficacy. It is important to note that drugs used to treat Alzheimer's disease, in particular acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, show a positive therapeutic potential in the treatment of type 2 diabetes, while drugs used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes can also prevent a number of pathologies characteristic for Alzheimer's disease. A promising direction in the search for a strategy for the treatment of type 2 diabetes and Alzheimer's disease may be the creation of complex multi-target drugs that have neuroprotective potential and affect specific common targets for type 2 diabetes and Alzheimer's disease.

70. Hippocampal injections of soluble amyloid-beta oligomers alter electroencephalographic activity during wake and slow-wave sleep in rats.
Abstract: Soluble amyloid-beta oligomers (Aβo) begin to accumulate in the human brain one to two decades before a clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The literature supports that soluble Aβo are implicated in synapse and neuronal losses in the brain regions such as the hippocampus. This region importantly contributes to explicit memory, the first type of memory affected in AD. During AD preclinical and prodromal stages, people are also experiencing wake/sleep alterations such as insomnia (e.g., difficulty initiating sleep, decreased sleep duration), excessive daytime sleepiness, and sleep schedule modifications. In addition, changes in electroencephalographic (EEG) activity during wake and sleep have been reported in AD patients and animal models. However, the specific contribution of Aβo to wake/sleep alterations is poorly understood and was investigated in the present study.

71. Effects of autologous serum on TREM2 and APOE in a personalized monocyte-derived macrophage assay of late-onset Alzheimer's patients.
Abstract: Age-associated deterioration of the immune system contributes to a chronic low-grade inflammatory state known as "inflammaging" and is implicated in the pathogenesis of late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD). Whether changes in the tissue environment caused by circulatory factors associated with aging may alter the innate immune response is unknown. Monocyte-derived macrophages (Mo-MФs) infiltrating the brain alongside microglia are postulated to play a modulatory role in LOAD and both express triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells 2 (TREM2). Apolipoprotein E (APOE) acts as a ligand for TREM2, and their role in amyloid beta (Aβ) clearance highlights their importance in LOAD. However, the influence of the patient's own milieu (autologous serum) on the synthesis of TREM2 and APOE in infiltrating macrophages remains unknown.

72. Levels of inflammatory cytokines MCP-1, CCL4, and PD-L1 in CSF differentiate idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus from neurodegenerative diseases.
Abstract: Neuroinflammatory processes have been suggested to play a role in the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative diseases and post-hemorrhagic hydrocephalus, but have rarely been investigated in patients with idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH). The aim of this study was to investigate whether levels of inflammatory proteins in CSF are different in iNPH compared to healthy controls and patients with selected neurodegenerative disorders, and whether any of these markers can aid in the differential diagnosis of iNPH.

73. Biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease: role in early and differential diagnosis and recognition of atypical variants.
Abstract: Development of in vivo biomarkers has shifted the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) from the later dementia stages of disease towards the earlier stages and has introduced the potential for pre-symptomatic diagnosis. The International Working Group recommends that AD diagnosis is restricted in the clinical setting to people with specific AD phenotypes and supportive biomarker findings.

74. c-Diadem: a constrained dual-input deep learning model to identify novel biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an incurable, debilitating neurodegenerative disorder. Current biomarkers for AD diagnosis require expensive neuroimaging or invasive cerebrospinal fluid sampling, thus precluding early detection. Blood-based biomarker discovery in Alzheimer's can facilitate less-invasive, routine diagnostic tests to aid early intervention. Therefore, we propose "c-Diadem" (constrained dual-input Alzheimer's disease model), a novel deep learning classifier which incorporates KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) pathway constraints on the input genotyping data to predict disease, i.e., mild cognitive impairment (MCI)/AD or cognitively normal (CN). SHAP (SHapley Additive exPlanations) was used to explain the model and identify novel, potential blood-based genetic markers of MCI/AD.

75. Cross species review of the physiological role of D-serine in translationally relevant behaviors.
Abstract: Bridging the gap between preclinical models of neurological and psychiatric disorders with their human manifestations is necessary to understand their underlying mechanisms, identify biomarkers, and develop novel therapeutics. Cognitive and social impairments underlie multiple neuropsychiatric and neurological disorders and are often comorbid with sleep disturbances, which can exacerbate poor outcomes. Importantly, many symptoms are conserved between vertebrates and invertebrates, although they may have subtle differences. Therefore, it is essential to determine the molecular mechanisms underlying these behaviors across different species and their translatability to humans. Genome-wide association studies have indicated an association between glutamatergic gene variants and both the risk and frequency of psychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and autism spectrum disorder. For example, changes in glutamatergic neurotransmission, such as glutamate receptor subtype N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) hypofunction, have been shown to contribute to the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Furthermore, in neurological disorders, such as traumatic brain injury and Alzheimer's disease, hyperactivation of NMDARs leads to synaptic damage. In addition to glutamate binding, NMDARs require the binding of a co-agonist D-serine or glycine to the GluN1 subunit to open. D-serine, which is racemized from L-serine by the neuronal enzyme serine racemase (SRR), and both SRR and D-serine are enriched in cortico-limbic brain regions. D-serine is critical for complex behaviors, such as cognition and social behavior, where dysregulation of its synthesis and release has been implicated in many pathological conditions. In this review, we explore the role of D-serine in behaviors that are translationally relevant to multiple psychiatric and neurological disorders in different models across species.

76. Differential diagnosis of neurodegenerative dementias with the explainable MRI based machine learning algorithm MUQUBIA.
Abstract: Biomarker-based differential diagnosis of the most common forms of dementia is becoming increasingly important. Machine learning (ML) may be able to address this challenge. The aim of this study was to develop and interpret a ML algorithm capable of differentiating Alzheimer's dementia, frontotemporal dementia, dementia with Lewy bodies and cognitively normal control subjects based on sociodemographic, clinical, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) variables. 506 subjects from 5 databases were included. MRI images were processed with FreeSurfer, LPA, and TRACULA to obtain brain volumes and thicknesses, white matter lesions and diffusion metrics. MRI metrics were used in conjunction with clinical and demographic data to perform differential diagnosis based on a Support Vector Machine model called MUQUBIA (Multimodal Quantification of Brain whIte matter biomArkers). Age, gender, Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) Dementia Staging Instrument, and 19 imaging features formed the best set of discriminative features. The predictive model performed with an overall Area Under the Curve of 98%, high overall precision (88%), recall (88%), and F1 scores (88%) in the test group, and good Label Ranking Average Precision score (0.95) in a subset of neuropathologically assessed patients. The results of MUQUBIA were explained by the SHapley Additive exPlanations (SHAP) method. The MUQUBIA algorithm successfully classified various dementias with good performance using cost-effective clinical and MRI information, and with independent validation, has the potential to assist physicians in their clinical diagnosis.

77. Alzheimer's disease marker phospho-tau181 is not elevated in the first year after moderate-to-severe TBI.
Abstract: Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is associated with the tauopathies Alzheimer's disease and chronic traumatic encephalopathy. Advanced immunoassays show significant elevations in plasma total tau (t-tau) early post-TBI, but concentrations subsequently normalise rapidly. Tau phosphorylated at serine-181 (p-tau181) is a well-validated Alzheimer's disease marker that could potentially seed progressive neurodegeneration. We tested whether post-traumatic p-tau181 concentrations are elevated and relate to progressive brain atrophy.

78. Spinal cord injury induced exacerbation of Alzheimer's disease like pathophysiology is reduced by topical application of nanowired cerebrolysin with monoclonal antibodies to amyloid beta peptide, p-tau and tumor necrosis factor alpha.
Abstract: Hallmark of Alzheimer's disease include amyloid beta peptide and phosphorylated tau deposition in brain that could be aggravated following traumatic of concussive head injury. However, amyloid beta peptide or p-tau in spinal cord following injury is not well known. In this investigation we measured amyloid beta peptide and p-tau together with tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) in spinal cord and brain following 48 h after spinal cord injury in relation to the blood-spinal cord and blood-brain barrier, edema formation, blood flow changes and cell injury in perifocal regions of the spinal cord and brain areas. A focal spinal cord injury was inflicted over the right dorsal horn of the T10-11 segment (4 mm long and 2 mm deep) and amyloid beta peptide and p-tau was measured in perifocal rostral (T9) and caudal (T12) spinal cord segments as well as in the brain areas. Our observations showed a significant increase in amyloid beta peptide in the T9 and T12 segments as well as in remote areas of brain and spinal cord after 24 and 48 h injury. This is associated with breakdown of the blood-spinal cord (BSCB) and brain barriers (BBB), edema formation, reduction in blood flow and cell injury. After 48 h of spinal cord injury elevation of amyloid beta peptide, phosphorylated tau (p-tau) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α) was seen in T9 and T12 segments of spinal cord in cerebral cortex, hippocampus and brain stem regions associated with microglial activation as seen by upregulation of Iba1 and CD86. Repeated nanowired delivery of cerebrolysin topically over the traumatized segment repeatedly together with monoclonal antibodies (mAb) to amyloid beta peptide (AβP), p-tau and TNF-α significantly attenuated amyloid beta peptide, p-tau deposition and reduces Iba1, CD68 and TNF-α levels in the brain and spinal cord along with blockade of BBB and BSCB, reduction in blood flow, edema formation and cell injury. These observations are the first to show that spinal cord injury induces Alzheimer's disease like symptoms in the CNS, not reported earlier.

79. Nicotine neurotoxicity exacerbation following engineered Ag and Cu (50-60 nm) nanoparticles intoxication. Neuroprotection with nanowired delivery of antioxidant compound H-290/51 together with serotonin 5-HT3 receptor antagonist ondansetron.
Abstract: Nicotine abuse is frequent worldwide leading to about 8 millions people die every year due to tobacco related diseases. Military personnel often use nicotine smoking that is about 12.8% higher than civilian populations. Nicotine smoking triggers oxidative stress and are linked to several neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease. Nicotine neurotoxicity induces significant depression and oxidative stress in the brain leading to neurovascular damages and brain pathology. Thus, details of nicotine neurotoxicity and factors influencing them require additional investigations. In this review, effects of engineered nanoparticles from metals Ag and Cu (50-60 nm) on nicotine neurotoxicity are discussed with regard to nicotine smoking. Military personnel often work in the environment where chances of nanoparticles exposure are quite common. In our earlier studies, we have shown that nanoparticles alone induces breakdown of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) and exacerbates brain pathology in animal models. In present investigation, nicotine exposure in with Ag or Cu nanoparticles intoxicated group exacerbated BBB breakdown, induce oxidative stress and aggravate brain pathology. Treatment with nanowired H-290/51 a potent chain-breaking antioxidant together with nanowired ondansetron, a potent 5-HT3 receptor antagonist significantly reduced oxidative stress, BBB breakdown and brain pathology in nicotine exposure associated with Ag or Cu nanoparticles intoxication. The functional significance of this findings and possible mechanisms of nicotine neurotoxicity are discussed based on current literature.

80. Aromatic glycosides and lignans glycosides with their acetylcholinesterase inhibitory activities from the leaves of Picrasma quassioides.
Abstract: In this study, eight new natural products were isolated from the leaves of Picrasma quassioides. Spectroscopic techniques were used for the elucidation of their planar structures. Their absolute configurations were elucidated on the basis of electron circular dichroism (ECD) techniques combined with the P/M helicity rule for the 2,3-dihydrobenzofuran chromophore, and saccharide hydrolysis. Cholinesterase inhibitors are often used as Alzheimer's disease inhibitors.Thus, acetylcholinesterase and butyrylcholinesterase inhibitory activity of these eight compounds were tested, and results showed that only compound 6 showed weakly acetylcholinesterase inhibitory activity. In particular, molecular docking was used to illustrate the bindings between compound 6 and the active sites of AChE.

81. Preparation and characterization of brain-targeted polymeric nanocarriers (Frankincense-PMBN-lactoferrin) and in-vivo evaluation on an Alzheimer's disease-like rat model induced by scopolamine.
Abstract: Experiments have demonstrated that frankincense may offer protection against scopolamine-induced Alzheimer's disease by mitigating cholinergic dysfunction and inhibiting inflammatory mediators. Nevertheless, its instability and limited water solubility lead to diminished medicinal efficacy. In this study, we utilized PMBN (poly [MPC-co-(BMA)-co-(MEONP)]) as a nanocarrier for targeted brain drug delivery of frankincense, employing lactoferrin as a ligand for precise targeting. Characterization of nanoparticle properties was conducted through FTIR and FESEM analysis, and the in-vitro drug release percentage from the nanoparticles was quantified. To induce Alzheimer's-like dementia in rats, scopolamine was intraperitoneally administered at a dose of 1 mg/kg/day for 14 days. Subsequently, behavioral assessments (Y-maze, passive avoidance test, tail suspension test) were performed, followed by evaluations of acetylcholinesterase (AChE), reduced glutathione (GSH), catalase (CAT), and brain histopathology at the conclusion of the treatment period. The results revealed that the nanoparticles had a size of 106.6 nm and a zeta potential of -3.8 mV. The maximum release of frankincense in the PBS environment from PMBN nanoparticles was 18.2 %, in accordance with the Peppas model. Behavioral tests indicated that targeted drug nanoparticles (F-PMBN-Lf) exhibited the capability to alleviate stress and depression while enhancing short-term memory in scopolamine-induced animals. Additionally, F-PMBN-Lf counteracted the scopolamine-induced elevation of AChE activity and GSH levels. However, it resulted in decreased activity of the antioxidant enzyme CAT compared to the scopolamine group. Histological analysis of brain tissue suggested that F-PMBN-Lf exerted a notable neuroprotective effect, preserving neuronal cells in contrast to the scopolamine-induced group. It appears that the polymer nanoparticles containing this plant extract have introduced a novel neuroprotective approach for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

82. Early-onset Ocular Motor Cranial Neuropathy is a Strong Predictor of Dementia: A Nationwide, Population-Based Cohort Study.
Abstract: To assess the risk of dementia in individuals with newly diagnosed ocular motor cranial neuropathy (OMCN).

83. Clinical Characterization, Course, and Treatment of Othello Syndrome: A Case Series and Systematic Review of the Literature.
Abstract: Othello syndrome (OS) is a condition characterized by a delusion of jealousy that one's spouse is having extramarital affairs. As in the eponymous Shakespearean tragedy, there is an unfortunate risk of violence. For patients with these symptoms, consultation-liaison psychiatrists may be asked to assist with evaluating the differential diagnosis, assessing safety, and developing treatment options.

84. Letter to our colleagues Family Practitioners, Geriatricians, and Radiologists to increase awareness regarding idiopathic Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus (iNPH).
Abstract: Idiopathic Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus (iNPH) is an underdiagnosed cause of dementia-like symptoms. The Primary Care Provider (PCP) and/or the Geriatrician can significantly improve iNPH diagnosis by requesting the Radiologist to measure the callosal angle on the Computed Tomography (CT) of their patients with cognitive impairment also affected by gait/balance difficulties. Increasing the recognition of iNPH patients is important because surgery benefits these patients even when there is co-existing early Alzheimer's Dementia (AD) or other related dementias.

85. Memantine: Updating a rare success story in pro-cognitive therapeutics.
Abstract: The great potential for NMDA receptor modulators as druggable targets in neurodegenerative disorders has been met with limited success. Considered one of the rare exceptions, memantine has consistently demonstrated restorative and prophylactic properties in many AD models. In clinical trials memantine slows the decline in cognitive performance associated with AD. Here, we provide an overview of the basic properties including pharmacological targets, toxicology and cellular effects of memantine. Evidence demonstrating reductions in molecular, physiological and behavioural indices of AD-like impairments associated with memantine treatment are also discussed. This represents both an extension and homage to Dr. Chris Parson's considerable contributions to our fundamental understanding of a success story in the AD treatment landscape.

86. Multimodal transformer network for incomplete image generation and diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Multimodal images such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and positron emission tomography (PET) could provide complementary information about the brain and have been widely investigated for the diagnosis of neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, multimodal brain images are often incomplete in clinical practice. It is still challenging to make use of multimodality for disease diagnosis with missing data. In this paper, we propose a deep learning framework with the multi-level guided generative adversarial network (MLG-GAN) and multimodal transformer (Mul-T) for incomplete image generation and disease classification, respectively. First, MLG-GAN is proposed to generate the missing data, guided by multi-level information from voxels, features, and tasks. In addition to voxel-level supervision and task-level constraint, a feature-level auto-regression branch is proposed to embed the features of target images for an accurate generation. With the complete multimodal images, we propose a Mul-T network for disease diagnosis, which can not only combine the global and local features but also model the latent interactions and correlations from one modality to another with the cross-modal attention mechanism. Comprehensive experiments on three independent datasets (i.e., ADNI-1, ADNI-2, and OASIS-3) show that the proposed method achieves superior performance in the tasks of image generation and disease diagnosis compared to state-of-the-art methods.

87. Particulate matter exposure and neurodegenerative diseases: A comprehensive update on toxicity and mechanisms.
Abstract: Exposure to particulate matter (PM) has been associated with a range of health impacts, including neurological abnormalities that affect neurodevelopment, neuroplasticity, and behavior. Recently, there has been growing interest in investigating the possible relationship between PM exposure and the onset and progression of neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and multiple sclerosis. However, the precise mechanism by which PM affects neurodegeneration is still unclear, even though several epidemiological and animal model studies have provided mechanistic insights. This article presents a review of the current research on the neurotoxicity of PM and its impact on neurodegenerative diseases. This review summarizes findings from epidemiological and animal model studies collected through searches in Google Scholar, PubMed, Web of Science, and Scopus. This review paper also discusses the reported effects of PM exposure on the central nervous system and highlights research gaps and future directions. The information presented in this review may inform public health policies aimed at reducing PM exposure and may contribute to the development of new treatments for neurodegenerative diseases. Further mechanistic and therapeutic research will be needed to fully understand the relationship between PM exposure and neurodegenerative diseases.

88. Ultrasound-enhanced catalytic hairpin assembly capable of ultrasensitive microRNA biosensing for the early screening of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Catalytic hairpin assembly (CHA) is a promising enzyme-free, isothermal signal amplification strategy, but the relatively time-consuming strand replacement limits its application scenarios. Here, we developed an ultrasound-enhanced catalytic hairpin assembly (UECHA) biosensing platform for early screening of Alzheimer's disease by introducing a portable acoustic-drive platform with functionalized microspheres for effective biomarkers enrichment and fluorescence enhancement. By constructing a gradient ultrasonic field in a microcavity, the platform concentrates the functionalized microspheres in a central position, accompanied by an enhanced fluorescence signal with a specific release. In addition, the programmable frequency modulation can also modify the acoustic potential well and effectively promote non-equilibrium chemical reactions such as CHA (25 min). Compared with the conventional catalytic hairpin assembly (CHA), UECHA allows for direct and quantitative measurement of AD miRNAs down to 3.55 × 10-15 M in 1 μL samples. This visual analysis of ultra-trace biomarkers based on acoustic enrichment and promotion provides a new perspective for the rapid and highly sensitive clinical detection of Alzheimer's disease.

89. Increasing Neurofilament and Glial Fibrillary Acidic Protein After Treatment Discontinuation Predicts Multiple Sclerosis Disease Activity.
Abstract: Stable patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) may discontinue treatment, but the risk of disease activity is unknown. Serum neurofilament light chain (sNfL) and serum glial fibrillary acidic protein (sGFAP) are biomarkers of subclinical disease activity and may help risk stratification. In this study, sNfL and sGFAP levels in stable patients were evaluated before and after treatment discontinuation to determine association with disease activity.

90. Uncovering the distinct macro-scale anatomy of dysexecutive and behavioural degenerative diseases.
Abstract: There is a longstanding ambiguity regarding the clinical diagnosis of dementia syndromes predominantly targeting executive functions versus behavior and personality. This is due to an incomplete understanding of the macro-scale anatomy underlying these symptomatologies, a partial overlap in clinical features, and the fact that both phenotypes can emerge from the same pathology and vice-versa. We collected data from a patient cohort of which 52 had dysexecutive Alzheimer's disease, 30 had behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia, seven met clinical criteria for behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia but had Alzheimer's disease pathology (behavioral Alzheimer's disease), and 28 had amnestic Alzheimer's disease. We first assessed group-wise differences in clinical and cognitive features and patterns of FDG-PET hypometabolism. We then performed a spectral decomposition of covariance between FDG-PET images to yield latent patterns of relative hypometabolism unbiased by diagnostic classification, which are referred to as "eigenbrains". These eigenbrains were subsequently linked to clinical and cognitive data and meta-analytic topics from a large external database of neuroimaging studies reflecting a wide range of mental functions. Finally, we performed a data-driven exploratory linear discriminant analysis to perform eigenbrain-based multiclass diagnostic predictions. Dysexecutive Alzheimer's disease and behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia patients were the youngest at symptom onset, followed by behavioral Alzheimer's disease, then amnestic Alzheimer's disease. Dysexecutive Alzheimer's disease patients had worse cognitive performance on nearly all cognitive domains compared to other groups, except verbal fluency which was equally impaired in dysexecutive Alzheimer's disease and behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia. Hypometabolism was observed in heteromodal cortices in dysexecutive Alzheimer's disease, temporo-parietal areas in amnestic Alzheimer's disease, and frontotemporal areas in behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia and behavioral Alzheimer's disease. The unbiased spectral decomposition analysis revealed that relative hypometabolism in heteromodal cortices was associated with worse dysexecutive symptomatology and a lower likelihood of presenting with behavior/personality problems, whereas relative hypometabolism in frontotemporal areas was associated with a higher likelihood of presenting with behavior/personality problems but did not correlate with most cognitive measures. The linear discriminant analysis yielded an accuracy of 82.1% in predicting diagnostic category and did not misclassify any dysexecutive Alzheimer's disease patient for behavioral Alzheimer's disease and vice-versa. Our results strongly suggest a double dissociation in that distinct macro-scale underpinnings underlie predominant dysexecutive versus personality/behavioral symptomatology in dementia syndromes. This has important implications for the implementation of criteria to diagnose and distinguish these diseases and supports the use of data-driven techniques to inform the classification of neurodegenerative diseases.

91. Donanemab: Not two without a third.
Abstract: Recently, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved 2 anti-amyloid monoclonal antibodies, aducanumab (June 7, 2021) and lecanemab (July 6, 2023), for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, and will most likely also approve a 3rd one, donanemab, soon. While these antibodies have been shown to significantly reduce amyloid in the brain, there is little, if any, evidence that they provide clinically meaningful benefit for AD patients by slowing cognitive decline. I have said it before, and I say it again: the reported benefits of anti-amyloid antibodies observed in clinical trials are erroneous and based on misinterpretation of data and a trivial miscalculation. For example, Sims et al. (2023) reported in a phase III clinical trial that donanemab treatment of early symptomatic AD patients with amyloid and tau pathology provided 35% and 36% slowing of clinical progression and cognitive decline, respectively, as measured using the Integrated Alzheimer's Disease Rating Scale (iADRS) and Clinical Dementia Rating-Sum of Boxes (CDR-SB) psychometric tests. Here, in this editorial, I show that 2.5% and 9.6% would be better estimates for less cognitive impairment with donanemab treatment.

92. Current Insights of Nanocarrier-Mediated Gene Therapeutics to Treat Potential Impairment of Amyloid Beta Protein and Tau Protein in Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD), is the major type of dementia and most progressive, irreversible widespread neurodegenerative disorder affecting the elderly worldwide. The prime hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are beta-amyloid plaques (Aβ) and neurofibrillary tangles (NFT). In spite of recent advances and developments in targeting the hallmarks of AD, symptomatic medications that promise neuroprotective activity against AD are currently unable to treat degenerating brain clinically or therapeutically and show little efficacy. The extensive progress of AD therapies over time has resulted in the advent of disease-modifying medications with the potential to alleviate AD. However, due to the presence of a defensive connection between the vascular system and the neural tissues known as the blood-brain barrier (BBB), directing these medications to the site of action in the degenerating brain is the key problem. BBB acts as a highly selective semipermeable membrane that prevents any type of foreign substance from entering the microenvironment of neurons. To overcome this limitation, the revolutionary approach of nanoparticle(NP)/nanocarrier-mediated drug delivery system has marked the era with its unique property to cross, avoid, or disrupt the defensive BBB efficiently and release the modified drug at the target site of action. After comprehensive data mining, this review focuses on the detailed understanding of different types of nanoparticle(NP)/nanocarrier-mediated drug delivery system like liposomes, micelles, gold nanoparticles(NP), polymeric NPs, etc. which have promising potential in carrying the desired drug(cargo) to the location in the degenerated brain thus mitigating the Alzheimer's disease.

93. High intake of ultra-processed food is associated with dementia in adults: a systematic review and meta-analysis of observational studies.
Abstract: Poor cardiometabolic health is associated with dementia. Considering previous meta-analyses have confirmed associations between ultra-processed foods (UPFs) and cardiometabolic disease, we were interested in the contribution of UPF consumption to the risk of developing dementia.

94. The function of astrocytes and their role in neurological diseases.
Abstract: Astrocytes have countless links with neurons. Previously, astrocytes were only considered a scaffold of neurons; in fact, astrocytes perform a variety of functions, including providing support for neuronal structures and energy metabolism, offering isolation and protection and influencing the formation, function and elimination of synapses. Because of these functions, astrocytes play an critical role in central nervous system (CNS) diseases. The regulation of the secretiory factors, receptors, channels and pathways of astrocytes can effectively inhibit the occurrence and development of CNS diseases, such as neuromyelitis optica (NMO), multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD) and Huntington's disease. The expression of aquaporin 4 in AS is directly related to NMO and indirectly involved in the clearance of Aβ and tau proteins in AD. Connexin 43 has a bidirectional effect on glutamate diffusion at different stages of stroke. Interestingly, astrocytes reduce the occurrence of PD through multiple effects such as secretion of related factors, mitochondrial autophagy and aquaporin 4. Therefore, this review is focused on the structure and function of astrocytes and the correlation between astrocytes and CNS diseases and drug treatment to explore the new functions of astrocytes with the astrocytes as the target. This, in turn, would provide a reference for the development of new drugs to protect neurons and promote the recovery of nerve function.

95. Eligibility rates among racially and ethnically diverse US participants in Phase 2 and Phase 3 placebo-controlled, double-blind, randomized trials of lecanemab and elenbecestat in early Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Many factors contribute to inadequate diversity in Alzheimer's disease (AD) clinical trials. We evaluated eligibility rates among racial and ethnic groups at US sites in large global multisite trials in early AD.

96. Hydrocortisone Mitigates Alzheimer's-Related Cognitive Decline through Modulating Oxidative Stress and Neuroinflammation.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD), an age-related degenerative disorder, is characterized by β-amyloid deposition, abnormal phosphorylation of tau proteins, synaptic dysfunction, neuroinflammation, and oxidative stress. Despite extensive research, there are no medications or therapeutic interventions to completely treat and reverse AD. Herein, we explore the potential of hydrocortisone (HC), a natural and endogenous glucocorticoid known to have potent anti-inflammatory properties, in an Aβ1-42-induced AD mouse model. Our investigation highlights the beneficial effects of HC administration on cognitive impairment, synaptic function enhancement, and neuronal protection in Aβ1-42-induced AD mice. Notably, HC treatment effectively suppresses the hyperactivation of microglia and astrocytes, leading to a reduction in proinflammatory factors and alleviation of neuroinflammation. Furthermore, HC intervention demonstrates the capacity to mitigate the generation of ROS and oxidative stress. These compelling findings underscore the potential therapeutic application of HC in AD and present promising opportunities for its utilization in AD prevention and treatment. The implications drawn from our findings indicate that hydrocortisone holds promise as a viable candidate for adjunctive use with other anti-AD drugs for the clinical management of patients presenting with moderate to severe AD.

97. Identification of Aggregation Mechanism of Acetylated PHF6* and PHF6 Tau Peptides Based on Molecular Dynamics Simulations and Markov State Modeling.
Abstract: The microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) has a critical role in the development and preservation of the nervous system. However, tau's dysfunction and accumulation in the human brain can lead to several neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Down's syndrome, and frontotemporal dementia. The microtubule binding (MTB) domain plays a significant, important role in determining the tau's pathophysiology, as the core of paired helical filaments PHF6* (275VQIINK280) and PHF6 (306VQIVYK311) of R2 and R3 repeat units, respectively, are formed in this region, which promotes tau aggregation. Post-translational modifications, and in particular lysine acetylation at K280 of PHF6* and K311 of PHF6, have been previously established to promote tau misfolding and aggregation. However, the exact aggregation mechanism is not known. In this study, we established an atomic-level nucleation-extension mechanism of the separated aggregation of acetylated PHF6* and PHF6 hexapeptides, respectively, of tau. We show that the acetylation of the lysine residues promotes the formation of β-sheet enriched high-ordered oligomers. The Markov state model analysis of ac-PHF6* and ac-PHF6 aggregation revealed the formation of an antiparallel dimer nucleus which could be extended from both sides in a parallel manner to form mixed-oriented and high-ordered oligomers. Our study describes the detailed mechanism for acetylation-driven tau aggregation, which provides valuable insights into the effect of post-translation modification in altering the pathophysiology of tau hexapeptides.

98. Heterogeneous treatment effects of metformin on risk of dementia in patients with type 2 diabetes: A longitudinal observational study.
Abstract: Little is known about the heterogeneous treatment effects of metformin on dementia risk in people with type 2 diabetes (T2D).

99. Intestinal changes in permeability, tight junction and mucin synthesis in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the accumulation of amyloid‑β (Aβ) in the brain. The gut/brain axis may serve a role in AD pathogenesis. The present study investigated deposition of Aβ in the intestinal epithelium and its potential effects on intestinal barrier function in a transgenic mouse model of AD. To investigate alterations in the structure and functionality of the intestinal mucosal barrier in AD model mice, hematoxylin and eosin staining for Paneth cell count, Alcian blue‑periodic acid Schiff staining for goblet cells, immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence for mucin (MUC)2 and wheat germ agglutin expression, transmission electron microscopy for mucosal ultrastructure, FITC‑labeled dextran assay for intestinal permeability, quantitative PCR for goblet cell precursor expression and western blot analysis for tight junction proteins, MUC2 and inflammatory cytokine detection were performed. The results showed that AD model mice exhibited excessive Aβ deposition in the intestinal epithelium, which was accompanied by increased intestinal permeability, inflammatory changes and decreased expression of tight junction proteins. These alterations in the intestinal barrier led to an increased proliferation of goblet and Paneth cells and increased mucus synthesis. Dysfunction of gut barrier occurs in AD and may contribute to its etiology. Future therapeutic strategies to reverse AD pathology may involve early manipulation of gut physiology and its microbiota.

100. Clinical, imaging, and biomarker evidence of amyloid- and tau-related neurodegeneration in late-onset epilepsy of unknown etiology.
Abstract: Accumulating evidence suggests amyloid and tau-related neurodegeneration may play a role in development of late-onset epilepsy of unknown etiology (LOEU). In this article, we review recent evidence that epilepsy may be an initial manifestation of an amyloidopathy or tauopathy that precedes development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Patients with LOEU demonstrate an increased risk of cognitive decline, and patients with AD have increased prevalence of preceding epilepsy. Moreover, investigations of LOEU that use CSF biomarkers and imaging techniques have identified preclinical neurodegeneration with evidence of amyloid and tau deposition. Overall, findings to date suggest a relationship between acquired, non-lesional late-onset epilepsy and amyloid and tau-related neurodegeneration, which supports that preclinical or prodromal AD is a distinct etiology of late-onset epilepsy. We propose criteria for assessing elevated risk of developing dementia in patients with late-onset epilepsy utilizing clinical features, available imaging techniques, and biomarker measurements. Further research is needed to validate these criteria and assess optimal treatment strategies for patients with probable epileptic preclinical AD and epileptic prodromal AD.

101. EFFECTS OF REHABILITATION PROGRAM FOCUSED ON IMPROVING REAL-LIFE DAILY ACTIVITIES OF PATIENTS WITH MILD COGNITIVE IMPAIRMENTS OR DEMENTIA AND THEIR CAREGIVERS.
Abstract: To evaluate the effectiveness of a dyadic outpatient rehabilitation program focused on improving the real-life daily activities of patients with mild cognitive impairments or dementia and their caregivers.

102. Recent advances in understanding Alzheimer's Disease: diagnosis and management strategies.
Abstract: As the rates of Alzheimer's Disease (AD) increase in the world due to the aging of the population, research has made tremendous advances to target the two hallmark pathologies of AD: amyloid-β (Aβ) plaque deposition and neurofibrillary tangles of hyperphosphorylated tau. Here, we discuss recent advances in the clinical evaluation and management of AD, with a focus on new hypotheses related to the etiology of AD and new evidence related to AD-mimicking neurodegenerative diseases. Though recent clinical studies suggest anti-amyloid disease modifying agents may slow the progression of AD, there is currently no medication that stops it. Moreover, slowing the progression will result in more individuals in the mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and mild dementia stages of AD. Given this reality, we evaluate the development of non-pharmacological strategies to help sustain cognitive function and quality of life.

103. Research trends and hotspots of glial fibrillary acidic protein within the area of Alzheimer's disease: a bibliometric analysis.
Abstract: Our aim was to analyze the trends and hotspots on glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) within the area of Alzheimer's disease (AD) by using a bibliometric method, which is currently missing.

104. TCMBank: bridges between the largest herbal medicines, chemical ingredients, target proteins, and associated diseases with intelligence text mining.
Abstract: Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) has long been viewed as a precious source of modern drug discovery. AI-assisted drug discovery (AIDD) has been investigated extensively. However, there are still two challenges in applying AIDD to guide TCM drug discovery: the lack of a large amount of standardized TCM-related information and AIDD is prone to pathological failures in out-of-domain data. We have released TCM Database@Taiwan in 2011, and it has been widely disseminated and used. Now, we developed TCMBank, the largest systematic free TCM database, which is an extension of TCM Database@Taiwan. TCMBank contains 9192 herbs, 61 966 ingredients (unduplicated), 15 179 targets, 32 529 diseases, and their pairwise relationships. By integrating multiple data sources, TCMBank provides 3D structure information of ingredients and provides a standard list and detailed information on herbs, ingredients, targets and diseases. TCMBank has an intelligent document identification module that continuously adds TCM-related information retrieved from the literature in PubChem. In addition, driven by TCMBank big data, we developed an ensemble learning-based drug discovery protocol for identifying potential leads and drug repurposing. We take colorectal cancer and Alzheimer's disease as examples to demonstrate how to accelerate drug discovery by artificial intelligence. Using TCMBank, researchers can view literature-driven relationship mapping between herbs/ingredients and genes/diseases, allowing the understanding of molecular action mechanisms for ingredients and identification of new potentially effective treatments. TCMBank is available at https://TCMBank.CN/.

105. Comparative assessment of Alzheimer's disease-related biomarkers in plasma and neuron-derived extracellular vesicles: a nested case-control study.
Abstract: Introduction: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is currently defined according to biomarkers reflecting the core underlying neuropathological processes: Aβ deposition, Tau, and neurodegeneration (ATN). The soluble phase of plasma and plasma neuron-derived extracellular vesicles (NDEVs) are increasingly being investigated as sources of biomarkers. The aim of this study was to examine the comparative biomarker potential of these two biofluids, as well as the association between respective biomarkers. Methods: We retrospectively identified three distinct diagnostic groups of 44 individuals who provided samples at baseline and at a mean of 3.1 years later; 14 were cognitively unimpaired at baseline and remained so (NRM-NRM), 13 had amnestic MCI that progressed to AD dementia (MCI-DEM) and 17 had AD dementia at both timepoints (DEM-DEM). Plasma NDEVs were isolated by immunoaffinity capture targeting the neuronal markers L1CAM, GAP43, and NLGN3. In both plasma and NDEVs, we assessed ATN biomarkers (Aβ42, Aβ40, total Tau, P181-Tau) alongside several other exploratory markers. Results: The Aβ42/Aβ40 ratio in plasma and NDEVs was lower in MCI-DEM than NRM-NRM at baseline and its levels in NDEVs decreased over time in all three groups. Similarly, plasma and NDEV-associated Aβ42 was lower in MCI-DEM compared to NRM-NRM at baseline and its levels in plasma decreased over time in DEM-DEM. For NDEV-associated proBDNF, compared to NRM-NRM, its levels were lower in MCI-DEM and DEM-DEM at baseline, and they decreased over time in the latter group. No group differences were found for other exploratory markers. NDEV-associated Aβ42/Aβ40 ratio and proBDNF achieved the highest areas under the curve (AUCs) for discriminating between diagnostic groups, while proBDNF was positively associated with Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score. No associations were found between the two biofluids for any assessed marker. Discussion: The soluble phase of plasma and plasma NDEVs demonstrate distinct biomarker profiles both at a single time point and longitudinally. The lack of association between plasma and NDEV measures indicates that the two types of biofluids demonstrate distinct biomarker signatures that may be attributable to being derived through different biological processes. NDEV-associated proBDNF may be a useful biomarker for AD diagnosis and monitoring.

106. Alzheimer's disease-induced phagocytic microglia express a specific profile of coding and non-coding RNAs.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease and the main cause of dementia in the elderly. AD pathology is characterized by accumulation of microglia around the beta-amyloid (Aβ) plaques which assumes disease-specific transcriptional signatures, as for the disease-associated microglia (DAM). However, the regulators of microglial phagocytosis are still unknown.

107. Targeting accelerated pulmonary ageing to treat COPD-induced neuropathological comorbidities.
Abstract: Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a major incurable health burden, ranking as the 3rd leading cause of death worldwide, mainly driven by cigarette smoking. COPD is characterised by persistent airway inflammation, lung function decline, and premature aging with the presence of pulmonary senescent cells. This review proposes that cellular senescence, a state of stable cell cycle arrest linked to ageing; induced by inflammation and oxidative stress in COPD, extends beyond the lungs and impacts the systemic circulation. This pulmonary senescent profile will reach other organs via extracellular vesicles contributing to brain inflammation and damage, and increasing the risk of neurological comorbidities, such as stroke, cerebral small vessel disease, and Alzheimer's disease. The review explores the role of cellular senescence in COPD-associated brain conditions and investigates the relationship between cellular senescence and circadian rhythm in COPD. Additionally, it discusses potential therapies, including senomorphic and senolytic treatments, as novel strategies to halt or improve COPD progression.

108. Blood biomarkers and neurodegeneration in individuals exposed to repetitive head impacts.
Abstract: It is unknown if fluid biomarkers reflective of brain pathologies are useful in detecting and following a neurodegenerative process in individuals exposed to repetitive head impacts. This study explores the relationship between blood biomarkers and longitudinal change in cognitive function and regional brain volumes in a cohort of professional fighters.

109. Retinal mid-peripheral capillary free zones are enlarged in cognitively unimpaired older adults at high risk for Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Compared to standard neuro-diagnostic techniques, retinal biomarkers provide a probable low-cost and non-invasive alternative for early Alzheimer's disease (AD) risk screening. We have previously quantified the periarteriole and perivenule capillary free zones (mid-peripheral CFZs) in cognitively unimpaired (CU) young and older adults as novel metrics of retinal tissue oxygenation. There is a breakdown of the inner retinal blood barrier, pericyte loss, and capillary non-perfusion or dropout in AD leading to potential enlargement of the mid-peripheral CFZs. We hypothesized the mid-peripheral CFZs will be enlarged in CU older adults at high risk for AD compared to low-risk individuals.

110. Patient characteristics, validity of clinical diagnoses and Outcomes Associated with Suicidality in Inpatients with Symptoms of Depression (OASIS-D): design, procedures and outcomes.
Abstract: Suicidality, ranging from passive suicidal thoughts to suicide attempt, is common in major depressive disorder (MDD). However, relatively little is known about patient, illness and treatment characteristics in those with co-occurring MDD and suicidality, including the timing of and factors associated with the offset, continuation or reemergence of suicidality. Here, we present the background, rationale, design and hypotheses of the Patient Characteristics, Validity of Clinical Diagnoses and Outcomes Associated with Suicidality in Inpatients with Symptoms of Depression (OASIS-D) study, an investigator-initiated, observational study, funded by Janssen-Cilag GmbH.

111. Diabetes: a tipping point in neurodegenerative diseases.
Abstract: Diabetes is associated with an increased risk and progression of Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's (PD) diseases. Conversely, diabetes may confer neuroprotection against amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). It has been posited that perturbations in glucose and insulin regulation, cholesterol metabolism, and mitochondrial bioenergetics defects may underlie the molecular underpinnings of diabetes effects on the brain. Nevertheless, the precise molecular mechanisms remain elusive. Here, we discuss the evidence from molecular, epidemiological, and clinical studies investigating the impact of diabetes on neurodegeneration and highlight shared dysregulated pathways between these complex comorbidities. We also discuss promising antidiabetic drugs, molecular diagnostics currently in clinical trials, and outstanding questions and challenges for future pursuit.

112. Association of Blood-Based DNA Methylation Markers With Late-Onset Alzheimer Disease: A Potential Diagnostic Approach.
Abstract: There is an urgent need to identify novel non-invasive biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) diagnosis. Recent advances in blood-based measurements of phosphorylated tau (pTau) species are promising but still insufficient to address clinical needs. Epigenetics has been shown to be helpful to better understand AD pathogenesis. Epigenetic biomarkers have been successfully implemented in other medical disciplines, such as oncology. The objective of the study was to explore the diagnostic accuracy of a blood-based DNA methylation marker panel as a non-invasive tool to identify late-onset Alzheimer patients, compared to age-matched controls.

113. Visualization of the elevated levels of hypochlorous acid in Alzheimer's disease with a ruthenium(II) complex-based luminescence probe.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related neurodegenerative disorder that devastatingly affects people's lives. Accumulating evidence indicates that the pathological progression of AD is inseparably connected with hypochlorous acid (HClO). However, further exploring the biological function remains an open challenging due to a lack of effective tools to image HClO in AD brains. To this end, a ruthenium(II) luminescence probe, Ru-HClO, is developed for quantitative detection and visualization of HClO in nerve cells and AD brains. Ru-HClO shows quenched luminescence due to the PET process (excited electron transfer from Ru(II) center to diaminomaleonitrile) and the CN bond isomerization in the excited state. The HClO-triggered specific cleavage reaction with Ru-HClO cleaves the CN bond to form highly luminescent Ru-COOH. Ru-HClO shows rapid response speed, high sensitivity and selectivity, excellent biocompatibility, which makes the probe to be applied to semi-quantitative analysis of HClO in nerve cells and high-throughput screening of anti-AD drugs in the AD cell model. Moreover, using Ru-HClO as a probe, present work further validated that the elevated levels of HClO secretion were accompanied by the AD progressed. These findings may provide valuable results for figuring out the biological roles that HClO played in AD but also for accelerating anti-AD therapeutic discovery.

114. Target-modulated mineralization of wood channels as enzyme-free electrochemical sensors for detecting amyloid-β species.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an irreversible brain disorder, which has been found to be associated with neurotoxic amyloid-β oligomers (AβO). The early diagnosis of AD is still a great challenge. Herein, inspired by the hierarchical channel structure of natural wood, we design and demonstrate a low-cost and sensitive wood channel-based fluidic membrane for electrochemical sensing of AβO1-42. In this design, Zn/Cu-2-methylimidazole (Zn/Cu-Hmim) with artificial peroxidase (POD)-like activity was asymmetrically fabricated at one side of the wood channels by biomimetic mineralization and a subsequent ion exchange reaction. The strong affinity between Cu(II) and AβO1-42 enables Cu(II) species in Zn/Cu-Hmim to be extracted by AβO1-42, thus suppressing the POD-like performance via Zn/Cu-Hmim disassembly. Using Zn/Cu-Hmim to catalyze the oxidation reaction of 2,2'-diazo-bis-3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid (ABTS) by H2O2, the current-voltage (I-V) properties of wood channels are influenced by the generated oxidation product (ABTS•+), thus providing information useful for the quantitative analysis of AβO1-42. Importantly, the three aggregation states of Aβ1-42 (AβM1-42, AβO1-42, and AβF1-42) can also be identified, owing to the affinity difference and available reaction sites. The proposed wood membrane provides a novel, assessable, and scalable channel device to develop sensitive electrochemical sensors; moreover, the sustainable wood materials represent alternative candidates for developing channel-structured sensing platforms.

115. A coumarin-based multifunctional chemosensor for Cu2+/Al3+ as an AD theranostic agent: Synthesis, X-ray single crystal analysis and activity study.
Abstract: The pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is complex. So far there is no effective drug to treat the disease. The pathological changes of AD began 30 years before symptoms, so early diagnosis is considered to be important for AD treatment. Integrating diagnosis and therapy into a single regent has provided a new opportunity for AD treatment. Given that metal dyshomeostasis is thought to be one of the key factors to cause AD, a Schiff base substituted coumarin (probe 1) has been designed and synthesized as a selective metal chelator for multi-factor anti-AD in this work. The results of metal ions recognition showed that probe 1 had high selective fluorescent turn-on response to Al3+ and fluorescent turn-off response to Cu2+, due to intramolecular charge transfer (ICT) mechanism. Meanwhile, the results of both in vitro and in vivo bioactivities evaluation including metal chelation, reactive oxide species (ROS) elimination, self-/Cu2+-induced Aβ aggregation showed that 1 and 1-Cu(II) complex had excellent synergistic anti-AD activities. In addition, 1 had low cytotoxicity and was predicted to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Noticeably, X-ray single crystal diffraction of 1-Cu(II) provided molecular level information to explain the structure and theranostic activity relationship. To sum up, 1 may be a promising candidate for the development of AD theranostic agent.

116. Genome-wide identification of m6A-associated single nucleotide polymorphisms in complex diseases of nervous system.
Abstract: N6-methyladenosine (m6A) is one of the most abundant chemical modifications on RNA and can affect the occurrence and development of diseases. Some studies have shown that the expressions of some m6A-related genes are significantly regulated by single nucleotide variants (SNV). However, the function of m6A-associated single nucleotide polymorphisms (m6A-SNP) remains unclear in multiple sclerosis (MS), Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). Here, we identified the disease-associated m6A-SNPs by integrating genome-wide association study (GWAS) and m6A-SNPs from the RMVar database, and confirmed the relationship between these identified m6A-SNPs and their target genes in eQTL analysis and gene differential expression analysis. Finally, 26 genes corresponding to 20 m6A-SNPs with eQTL signals were identified and differentially expressed (P < 0.05) in MS, 15 genes corresponding to 12 m6A-SNPs (P < 1e-04) and were differentially expressed in AD, and 27 PD-associated m6A-SNPs regulated the expression of 31 genes. There were 5 HLA genes with eQTL signals (HLA-DQB1, HLA-DRB1, HLA-DQA1, HLA-DQA2 and HLA-DQB1-AS1) in the three diseases. In summary, our study provided new insights into understanding the potential roles of these m6A-SNPs in disease pathogenesis as well as therapeutic target.

117. Phenyl-quinoline derivatives as a lead structure of cholinesterase inhibitor endowed with potency to reduce the GSK-3β level targeting Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that leads to cognitive decline and memory loss. Unfortunately, there is no effective treatment for this condition, so there is a growing interest in developing new anti-AD agents. In this research project, a series of phenyl-quinoline derivatives were designed as potential anti-AD agents. These derivatives were substituted at two different positions on benzyl and phenyl rings. The structures of the derivatives were characterized using techniques such as IR spectroscopy, 1H NMR, 13C NMR, and elemental analysis. During the in vitro screening, the derivatives were tested against both acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE). It was observed that most of the derivatives showed higher selectivity against BChE compared to AChE. Among the derivatives, analog 7n (with a methoxy group at R1 and a 4-bromine substituent at R2 exhibited the highest potency, with a 75-fold improvement in the activity compared to the positive control. Importantly, this potent analog demonstrated no toxicity at the tested concentration on SH-SY5Y cells, indicating its potential as a safe anti-AD agent. The level of GSK-3β was also reduced after treatments with 7n at 50 μM. Overall, this study highlights the design and evaluation of phenyl-quinoline derivatives as promising candidates for developing novel anti-AD agents.

118. Therapeutic efficacy and promise of stem cell-derived extracellular vesicles in Alzheimer's disease and other aging-related disorders.
Abstract: The term extracellular vesicles (EVs) refers to a variety of heterogeneous nanovesicles secreted by almost all cell types, primarily for intercellular communication and maintaining cellular homeostasis. The role of EVs has been widely reported in the genesis and progression of multiple pathological conditions, and these vesicles are suggested to serve as 'liquid biopsies'. In addition to their use as biomarkers, EVs secreted by specific cell types, especially with stem cell properties, have shown promise as cell-free nanotherapeutics. Stem cell-derived EVs (SC-EVs) have been increasingly used as an attractive alternative to stem cell therapies and have been reported to promote regeneration of aging-associated tissue loss and function. SC-EVs treatment ameliorates brain and peripheral aging, reproductive dysfunctions and inhibits cellular senescence, thereby reversing several aging-related disorders and dysfunctions. The anti-aging therapeutic potential of SC-EVs depends on multiple factors, including the type of stem cells, the age of the source stem cells, and their physiological state. In this review, we briefly describe studies related to the promising effects of SC-EVs against various aging-related pathologies, and then we focus in-depth on the therapeutic benefits of SC-EVs against Alzheimer's disease, one of the most devastating neurodegenerative diseases in elderly individuals. Numerous studies in transgenic mouse models have reported the usefulness of SC-EVs in targeting the pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease, including amyloid plaques, neurofibrillary tangles, and neuroinflammation, leading to improved neuronal protection, synaptic plasticity, and cognitive measures. Cell culture studies have further identified the underlying molecular mechanisms through which SC-EVs reduce amyloid beta (Aβ) levels or shift microglia phenotype from pro-inflammatory to anti-inflammatory state. Interestingly, multiple routes of administration, including nasal delivery, have confirmed that SC-EVs could cross the blood-brain barrier. Due to this, SC-EVs have also been tested to deliver specific therapeutic cargo molecule/s (e.g., neprilysin) to the brain. Despite these promises, several challenges related to quality control, scalability, and biodistribution remain, hindering the realization of the vast clinical promise of SC-EVs.

119. The Memory Alteration Test is correlated with clinical, cerebrospinal fluid, and brain imaging markers of Alzheimer disease in Lima, Peru.
Abstract: As disease modifying therapies become available, early detection of Alzheimer's disease (AD) becomes increasingly important. However, biomarkers in LMICs are rare and costly. Thus, we evaluated an AD-focused BCT, the Memory Alteration Test (M@T), to detect biomarker-proven AD and quantify its correlation with neurodegeneration and CSF AD biomarkers in a cohort of participants from Lima, Peru.

120. Overcoming the structure deficiency of nanodrug coated with tannic acid shell through phenolic hydroxyl protection strategy for Alzheimer's disease combination treatment.
Abstract: Tannic acid (TA) shell is of great interest for nanodrug design due to its versatile application such as antioxidant, antibacterial, anti-inflammatory. However, evidence is emerging that TA air oxidation in storage stage and unfavorable interactions of TA with electrolyte or protein in drug delivery could bring great challenge for the structure stability of nanodrug. In this study, a smart TA shell of nanomicelles was constructed through phenolic hydroxyl protection strategy, and the antioxidant capacity of nanomicelles maintain stable after 24 days storage. The phenolic hydroxyl protective tannic acid micelles (PHPTA micelles) show excellent performance for combination delivery of azoramide (Azo), dantrolene (Dan), Trazodone (Tra) in accelerated senescence (SAMP8) mice. This study may pave the way for the fabrication of nanodrugs with stable and smart TA shell for oxidative stress relevant diseases.

121. Non-Invasive Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease with Scintillating Nanotubes.
Abstract: Effective and accessible treatments for Alzheimer's disease (AD) are urgently needed. Soluble Aβ oligomers have been identified as neurotoxic species in AD and targeted in antibody-based drug development to mitigate cognitive decline. However, controversy exists concerning their efficacy and safety. In this study, we propose an alternative strategy to inhibit the formation of Aβ oligomers by selectively oxidizing specific amino acids in the Aβ sequence, thereby preventing its aggregation. Targeted oxidation was achieved using biocompatible and blood-brain barrier-permeable multicomponent nanoscintillators that generate singlet oxygen upon X-ray interaction. Surface-modified scintillators interact selectively with Aβ and, upon X-ray irradiation, inhibit the formation of neurotoxic aggregates both in vitro and in vivo. Feeding transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans expressing human Aβ with the nanoscintillators and subsequent irradiation with soft X-ray reduced Aβ oligomer levels, extended lifespan, and restored memory and behavioral deficits. These findings support the potential of X-ray-based therapy for AD and warrant further development. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

122. Cognitive Impairment in Sexual and Gender Minority Groups: A Scoping Review of the Literature.
Abstract: Purpose: The purpose of this review was to synthesize evidence on differences in cognitive impairment by sexual orientation/gender identity (SOGI) status. Methods: A scoping review of the literature was conducted. Five databases (PubMed/Medline, Cumulated Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature, Web of Science, PsycInfo, and Embase) were searched for primary articles comparing incidence or prevalence of cognitive impairment among sexual and gender minority (SGM) groups versus non-SGM groups. Two reviewers independently screened articles and conducted risk-of-bias assessment on eligible articles. Results: Fifteen primary studies were eligible. Most studies (n = 13) were cross-sectional, with moderate to critical risk of bias. Among eight studies examining self-reported cognitive impairment, seven reported a higher prevalence among some SGM groups versus non-SGM groups. Among seven studies using objective measures of cognitive impairment, three examined prevalence of clinician-documented diagnosis of dementia, of which two reported a higher prevalence specifically among transgender versus cisgender individuals. Among the other four studies examining objective measures, two reported poorer cognitive performance or memory, one reported better performance, and another reported no difference. Comparisons across studies were challenging due to inconsistencies in how SOGI and cognitive impairment were operationalized, and the factors used for statistical adjustment; some studies adjusted for putative intermediary factors that potentially explain differences in cognitive impairment. Conclusions: Whereas most published studies identified a positive relationship between SOGI status and self-reported cognitive impairment, evidence is mixed with regard to objective cognitive performance. Well-designed longitudinal, observational studies are needed, using objective measures of cognitive function, with careful consideration of confounding versus intermediary risk factors.

123. Aspects of Rest-Activity Rhythms Associated With Behavioral and Psychological Symptoms in Moderate and Severe Dementia: Results of a Cross-sectional Analysis.
Abstract: Disturbances in rest-activity rhythms (RAR) are commonly observed in patients with dementia; however, the influence thereof on behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia (BPSD) remains unexplored. This study aimed to determine whether there is an association between RAR and BPSD among patients with moderate and severe dementia.

124. In Vivo Near-Infrared Fluorescence Imaging Selective for Soluble Amyloid β Aggregates Using y-Shaped BODIPY Derivative.
Abstract: Soluble amyloid β (Aβ) aggregates, suggested to be the most toxic forms of Aβ, draw attention as therapeutic targets and biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD). As soluble Aβ aggregates are transient and diverse, imaging their diverse forms in vivo is expected to have a marked impact on research and diagnosis of AD. Herein, we report a near-infrared fluorescent (NIRF) probe, BAOP-16, targeting diverse soluble Aβ aggregates. BAOP-16, whose molecular shape resembles "y", showed a marked selective increase in fluorescence intensity upon binding to soluble Aβ aggregates in the near-infrared region and a high binding affinity for them. Additionally, BAOP-16 could detect Aβ oligomers in the brains of Aβ-inoculated model mice. In an in vivo fluorescence imaging study of BAOP-16, brains of AD model mice displayed significantly higher fluorescence signals than those of wild-type mice. These results indicate that BAOP-16 could be useful for the in vivo NIRF imaging of diverse soluble Aβ aggregates.

125. Cognitive Dysfunction and Affective Mood Disorder Screening in Patients With Chronic Inflammatory Bowel Disease: Protocol for a Prospective Case-Control Study.
Abstract: Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) might be more frequent in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), but the relationship between these 2 entities is yet to be entirely established. Certain blood biomarkers (eg, serum amyloid A [SAA] and serum homocysteine [Hcy], which increase in IBD and MCI; brain-derived neurotrophic factor [BDNF], which decreases in MCI and AD but is not clearly modified in IBD; and S100 calcium-binding protein B [S100B], which increases in the blood-brain barrier and neuronal lesions) might predict the stage of MCI or dementia or progression to a further state. The gut-brain axis (GBA) might be the key to the development of MCI in patients with IBD, along with systemic inflammation and the possible and unknown adverse effects of disease-modifying medication.

126. Transforming Drug Development for Neurological Disorders: Proceedings from a Multidisease Area Workshop.
Abstract: Neurological disorders represent some of the most challenging therapeutic areas for successful drug approvals. The escalating global burden of death and disability for such diseases represents a significant worldwide public health challenge, and the rate of failure of new therapies for chronic progressive disorders of the nervous system is higher relative to other non-neurological conditions. However, progress is emerging rapidly in advancing the drug development landscape in both rare and common neurodegenerative diseases. In October 2022, the Critical Path Institute (C-Path) and the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) organized a Neuroscience Annual Workshop convening representatives from the drug development industry, academia, the patient community, government agencies, and regulatory agencies regarding the future development of tools and therapies for neurological disorders. This workshop focused on five chronic progressive diseases: Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, Duchenne muscular dystrophy, and inherited ataxias. This special conference report reviews the key points discussed during the three-day dynamic workshop, including shared learnings, and recommendations that promise to catalyze future advancement of novel therapies and drug development tools.

127. Intermittent fasting and Alzheimer's disease-Targeting ketone bodies as a potential strategy for brain energy rescue.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) lacks effective clinical treatments. As the disease progresses, the cerebral glucose hypometabolism that appears in the preclinical phase of AD gradually worsens, leading to increasingly severe brain energy disorders. This review analyzes the brain energy deficit in AD and its etiology, brain energy rescue strategies based on ketone intervention, the effects and mechanisms of IF, the differences in efficacy between IF and ketogenic diet and the duality of IF. The evidence suggests that brain energy deficits lead to the development and progression of AD pathology. IF, which improves brain energy impairments by promoting ketone metabolism, thus has good therapeutic potential for AD.

128. Delivery of the Brainshuttle™ amyloid-beta antibody fusion trontinemab to non-human primate brain and projected efficacious dose regimens in humans.
Abstract: There are few treatments that slow neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD), and while therapeutic antibodies are being investigated in clinical trials for AD treatment, their access to the central nervous system is restricted by the blood-brain barrier. This study investigates a bispecific modular fusion protein composed of gantenerumab, a fully human monoclonal anti- amyloid-beta (Aβ) antibody under investigation for AD treatment, with a human transferrin receptor 1-directed Brainshuttle™ module (trontinemab; RG6102, INN trontinemab). In vitro, trontinemab showed a similar binding affinity to fibrillar Aβ40 and Aβ plaques in human AD brain sections to gantenerumab. A single intravenous administration of trontinemab (10 mg/kg) or gantenerumab (20 mg/kg) to non-human primates (NHPs, Macaca fascicularis), was well tolerated in both groups. Immunohistochemistry indicated increased trontinemab uptake into the brain endothelial cell layer and parenchyma, and more homogeneous distribution, compared with gantenerumab. Brain and plasma pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters for trontinemab were estimated by nonlinear mixed-effects modeling with correction for tissue residual blood, indicating a 4-18-fold increase in brain exposure. A previously developed clinical PK/pharmacodynamic model of gantenerumab was adapted to include a brain compartment as a driver of plaque removal and linked to the allometrically scaled above model from NHP. The new brain exposure-based model was used to predict trontinemab dosing regimens for effective amyloid reduction. Simulations from these models were used to inform dosing of trontinemab in the first-in-human clinical trial.

129. Therapeutic considerations of bioactive compounds in Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease: Dissecting the molecular pathways.
Abstract: Leading neurodegenerative diseases Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are characterized by the impairment of memory and motor functions, respectively. Despite several breakthroughs, there exists a lack of disease-modifying treatment strategies for these diseases, as the available drugs provide symptomatic relief and bring along side effects. Bioactive compounds are reported to bear neuroprotective properties with minimal toxicity, however, a detailed elucidation of their modes of neuroprotection is lacking. The review elucidates the neuroprotective mechanism(s) of some of the major phyto-compounds in pre-clinical and clinical studies of AD and PD to understand their potential in combating these diseases. Curcumin, eugenol, resveratrol, baicalein, sesamol and so on have proved efficient in countering the pathological hallmarks of AD and PD. Curcumin, resveratrol, caffeine and so on have reached the clinical phases of these diseases, while aromadendrin, delphinidin, cyanidin and xanthohumol are yet to be extensively explored in pre-clinical phases. The review highlights the need for extensive investigation of these compounds in the clinical stages of these diseases so as to utilize their disease-modifying abilities in the real field of treatment. Moreover, poor pharmacokinetic properties of natural compounds are constraints to their therapeutic yields and this review suggests a plausible contribution of nanotechnology in overcoming these limitations.

130. Multivariate word properties in fluency tasks reveal markers of Alzheimer's dementia.
Abstract: Verbal fluency tasks are common in Alzheimer's disease (AD) assessments. Yet, standard valid response counts fail to reveal disease-specific semantic memory patterns. Here, we leveraged automated word-property analysis to capture neurocognitive markers of AD vis-à-vis behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD).

131. Impaired electrical activity of the brain explains the onset of dementia in aging people.
Abstract: Aging brains that share many cognitive deficits with the early stages of Alzheimer's-type dementias are not caused by toxic protein deposits but by somatic mutations that impair synaptic signaling. These mutant proteins that contribute to neuronal action potentials could be biomarkers of functional defects that offer new approaches to diagnosis and treatment.

132. Nervonic acid reduces the cognitive and neurological disturbances induced by combined doses of D-galactose/AlCl3 in mice.
Abstract: Nervonic acid (NA) is a kind of ultra-long-chain monounsaturated fatty acid, which can repair nerve cell damage caused by oxidative stress. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a nervous system disease and often accompanied by the decline of learning and memory capacity. In this study, the combined dose of D-galactose/AlCl3 was used to establish a mouse model of AD. Meanwhile, the mice were treated with different doses of NA (10.95 and 43.93 mg/kg). The results showed that NA delayed the decline of locomotion and learning ability caused by D-galactose/AlCl3, increased the activity of total superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and reduced the content of malondialdehyde in vivo. Besides, NA reduced the levels of interleukin-6 (IL-6), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), interleukin-1β (IL-1β), aspartate aminotransferase, alanine aminotransferase, increased the levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine, dopamine, γ-aminobutyric acid, alleviated the cell morphology damage induced by D-galactose/AlCl3 in hippocampus and liver tissue. Furthermore, the intervention of NA upregulated the expression levels of PI3K, AKT, and mTOR genes and downregulated the expression levels of TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-1β genes. Therefore, we speculate the intervention of NA could be an effective way in improving cognitive impairment through the activation of PI3K signaling pathway. These results suggest that NA has the potential to be developed as antioxidant drug for the prevention and early therapy of AD.

133. Expansion of interferon signaling-associated gene (ISAG) hi T cells in early-onset Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Altered immune signatures are emerging as a central theme in neurodegenerative disease, yet little is known about immune responses in early-onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD).

134. Biomarker discovery process at binomial decision point (2BDP): Analytical pipeline to construct biomarker panel.
Abstract: A clinical incident is typically manifested by several molecular events; therefore, it seems logical that a successful diagnosis, prognosis, or stratification of a clinical landmark require multiple biomarkers. In this report, we presented a machine learning pipeline, namely "Biomarker discovery process at binomial decision point" (2BDP) that took an integrative approach in systematically curating independent variables (e.g., multiple molecular markers) to explain an output variable (e.g., clinical landmark) of binary in nature. In a logical sequence, 2BDP includes feature selection, unsupervised model development and cross validation. In the present work, the efficiency of 2BDP was demonstrated by finding three biomarker panels that independently explained three stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD) marked as Braak stages I, II and III, respectively. We designed three assortments from the entire cohort based on these Braak stages; subsequently, each assortment was split into two populations at Braak score I, II or III. 2BDP systematically integrated random forest and logistic regression fitting model to find biomarker panels with minimum features that explained these three assortments, e.g., significantly differentiated two populations segregated by Braak stage I, II or III, respectively. Thereafter, the efficacies of these panels were measured by the area under the curve (AUC) values of the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) plot. The AUC-ROC was calculated by two cross-validation methods. Final set of gene markers was a mix of novel and a priori established AD signatures. These markers were weighted by unique coefficients and linearly connected in a group of 2-10 to explain Braak stage I, II or III by AUC ≥ 0.8. Small sample size and a lack of distinctly recruited Training and Test sets were the limitations of the present undertaking; yet 2BDP demonstrated its capability to curate a panel of optimum numbers of biomarkers to describe the outcome variable with high efficacy.

135. Genome-wide association study of hippocampal blood-oxygen-level-dependent-cerebral blood flow correlation in Chinese Han population.
Abstract: Correlation between blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) and cerebral blood flow (CBF) has been used as an index of neurovascular coupling. Hippocampal BOLD-CBF correlation is associated with neurocognition, and the reduced correlation is associated with neuropsychiatric disorders. We conducted the first genome-wide association study of the hippocampal BOLD-CBF correlation in 4,832 Chinese Han subjects. The hippocampal BOLD-CBF correlation had an estimated heritability of 16.2-23.9% and showed reliable genome-wide significant association with a locus at 3q28, in which many variants have been linked to neuroimaging and cerebrospinal fluid markers of Alzheimer's disease. Gene-based association analyses showed four significant genes (GMNC, CRTC2, DENND4B, and GATAD2B) and revealed enrichment for mast cell calcium mobilization, microglial cell proliferation, and ubiquitin-related proteolysis pathways that regulate different cellular components of the neurovascular unit. This is the first unbiased identification of the association of hippocampal BOLD-CBF correlation, providing fresh insights into the genetic architecture of hippocampal neurovascular coupling.

136. Loop diuretics association with Alzheimer's disease risk.
Abstract: Objectives: To investigate whether exposure history to two common loop diuretics, bumetanide and furosemide, affects the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD) after accounting for socioeconomic status and congestive heart failure. Methods: Individuals exposed to bumetanide or furosemide were identified in the Stanford University electronic health record using the de-identified Observational Medical Outcomes Partnership platform. We matched the AD case cohort to a control cohort (1:20 case:control) on gender, race, ethnicity, and hypertension, and controlled for variables that could potentially be collinear with bumetanide exposure and/or AD diagnosis. Among individuals older than 65 years, 5,839 AD cases and 116,103 matched controls were included. A total of 1,759 patients (54 cases and 1,705 controls) were exposed to bumetanide. Results: After adjusting for socioeconomic status and other confounders, the exposure of bumetanide and furosemide was significantly associated with reduced AD risk (respectively, bumetanide odds ratio [OR] = 0.23; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.15-0.36; p = 4.0 × 10-11; furosemide OR = 0.42; 95% CI, 0.38-0.47; p < 2.0 × 10-16). Discussion: Our study replicates in an independent sample that a history of bumetanide exposure is associated with reduced AD risk while also highlighting an association of the most common loop diuretic (furosemide) with reduced AD risk. These associations need to be additionally replicated, and the mechanism of action remains to be investigated.

137. Multi-feature fusion learning for Alzheimer's disease prediction using EEG signals in resting state.
Abstract: Diagnosing Alzheimer's disease (AD) lesions via visual examination of Electroencephalography (EEG) signals poses a considerable challenge. This has prompted the exploration of deep learning techniques, such as Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) and Visual Transformers (ViTs), for AD prediction. However, the classification performance of CNN-based methods has often been deemed inadequate. This is primarily attributed to CNNs struggling with extracting meaningful lesion signals from the complex and noisy EEG data.

138. Exploring the potential of amyloids in biomedical applications: A review.
Abstract: Amyloid is defined as a fibrous quaternary structure formed by assembling protein or peptide monomers into intermolecularly hydrogen linked β-sheets. There is a prevalent issue with protein aggregation and the buildup of amyloid molecules, which results in human neurological illnesses including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. But it is now evident that many organisms, like bacteria, fungi as well as humans, use the same fibrillar structure to carry out a variety of biological functions, such as structure and protection supporting interface transitions and cell-cell recognition, protein control and storage, epigenetic inheritance, and memory. Recent discoveries of self-assembling amyloidogenic peptides and proteins, based on the amyloid core structure, give rise to interesting biomaterials with potential uses in numerous industries. These functions dramatically diverge from the initial conception of amyloid fibrils as intrinsically diseased entities. Apart from the natural ability of amyloids to spontaneously arrange themselves and their exceptional material characteristics, this aspect has prompted extensive research into engineering artificial amyloids for generating various nanostructures, molecular substances, and combined materials. Here, we discuss significant developments in the artificial design of useful amyloids as well as how amyloid materials serve as examples of how function emerges from protein self-assembly at various length scales.

139. In silico identification of colchicine derivatives as novel and potential inhibitors based on molecular docking and dynamic simulations targeting multifactorial drug targets involved in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disorder, characterized by a gradual and steady deterioration in cognitive function over time. At least 50 million people worldwide are considered to have AD or another form of dementia. AD is marked by a gradual decline in cognitive abilities, memory deterioration and neurodegenerative transformations within the brain. The intricate and multifaceted nature of polygenic AD presents significant challenges within the landscape of drug development. The pathophysiology of AD unfolds in a non-linear and dynamic pattern, encompassing various systems and giving rise to a multitude of factors and hypotheses that contribute to the disease's onset. These encompass theories such as the beta-amyloid hypothesis, cholinergic hypothesis, tau hypothesis, oxidative stress and more. In the realm of drug development, polypharmacological drug profiles have emerged as a strategy that can yield combined or synergistic effects, effectively mitigating undesirable side effects and significantly enhancing the therapeutic efficacy of essential medications. With this concept in mind, our in-silico study sought to delve into the binding interactions of a diverse array of colchicine derivative compounds. These derivatives are chosen for their potential anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, anti-neurodegenerative and neuroprotective properties against Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative diseases. We investigated compound interactions with AD-related targets, utilizing comprehensive molecular docking and dynamic simulations. COM111X showed impressive docking with acetylcholinesterase, indicating potential as an anti-Alzheimer's drug. COM112Y displayed strong docking scores with PDE4D and butyrylcholinesterase, suggesting dual inhibition for Alzheimer's treatment. Further in vitro and in vivo studies are warranted to explore these findings.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.

140. Leptin prevents aberrant targeting of tau to hippocampal synapses via PI 3 kinase driven inhibition of GSK3β.
Abstract: Amyloid-β (Aβ) and hyper-phosphorylated tau are key hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD), with an accumulation of both proteins linked to hippocampal synaptic dysfunction. Recent evidence indicates that Aβ drives mis-localisation of tau from axons to synapses, resulting in AMPA receptor (AMPAR) internalisation and impaired excitatory synaptic function. These tau-driven synaptic impairments are thought to underlie the cognitive deficits in AD. Consequently, limiting the synapto-toxic effects of tau may prevent AD-related cognitive deficits. Increasing evidence links leptin dysfunction with higher AD risk, and numerous studies have identified neuroprotective properties of leptin in AD models of Aβ-induced toxicity. However, it is unclear if leptin protects against tau-related synaptic dysfunction. Here we show that Aβ1-42 significantly increases dendritic and synaptic levels of tau and p-tau in hippocampal neurons, and these effects were blocked by leptin. In accordance with GSK-3β being involved in tau phosphorylation, the protective effects of leptin involve PI 3-kinase (PI3K) activation and inhibition of GSK-3β. Aβ1-42 -driven synaptic targeting of tau was associated with the removal of GluA1-containing AMPARs from synapses, which was also inhibited by leptin-driven inhibition of GSK-3β. Direct application of oligomeric tau to hippocampal neurons caused internalisation of GluA1-containing AMPARs and this effect was blocked by prior application of leptin. Similarly, leptin prevented the ability of tau to block induction of activity-dependent long-term potentiation (LTP) at hippocampal SC-CA1 synapses. These findings increase our understanding of the neuroprotective actions of leptin in the early pre-clinical stages of AD and further validate the leptin system as a therapeutic target in AD.

141. Emerging roles for ITAM and ITIM receptor signaling in microglial biology and Alzheimer's disease-related amyloidosis.
Abstract: Microglia are critical responders to amyloid beta (Aβ) plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Therefore, the therapeutic targeting of microglia in AD is of high clinical interest. While previous investigation has focused on the innate immune receptors governing microglial functions in response to Aβ plaques, how microglial innate immune responses are regulated is not well understood. Interestingly, many of these microglial innate immune receptors contain unique cytoplasmic motifs, termed immunoreceptor tyrosine-based activating and inhibitory motifs (ITAM/ITIM), that are commonly known to regulate immune activation and inhibition in the periphery. In this review, we summarize the diverse functions employed by microglia in response to Aβ plaques and also discuss the innate immune receptors and intracellular signaling players that guide these functions. Specifically, we focus on the role of ITAM and ITIM signaling cascades in regulating microglia innate immune responses. A better understanding of how microglial innate immune responses are regulated in AD may provide novel therapeutic avenues to tune the microglial innate immune response in AD pathology.

142. Insulin resistance induces earlier initiation of cognitive dysfunction mediated by cholinergic deregulation in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Although insulin resistance increases the risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD), the mechanisms remain unclear, partly because no animal model exhibits the insulin-resistant phenotype without persistent hyperglycemia. Here we established an AD model with whole-body insulin resistance without persistent hyperglycemia (APP/IR-dKI mice) by crossbreeding constitutive knock-in mice with P1195L-mutated insulin receptor (IR-KI mice) and those with mutated amyloid precursor protein (AppNL-G-F mice: APP-KI mice). APP/IR-dKI mice exhibited cognitive impairment at an earlier age than APP-KI mice. Since cholinergic dysfunction is a major characteristic of AD, pharmacological interventions on the cholinergic system were performed to investigate the mechanism. Antagonism to a nicotinic acetylcholine receptor α7 (nAChRα7) suppressed cognitive function and cortical blood flow (CBF) response to cholinergic-regulated peripheral stimulation in APP-KI mice but not APP/IR-dKI mice. Cortical expression of Chrna7, encoding nAChRα7, was downregulated in APP/IR-dKI mice compared with APP-KI. Amyloid β burden did not differ between APP-KI and APP/IR-dKI mice. Therefore, insulin resistance, not persistent hyperglycemia, induces the earlier onset of cognitive dysfunction and CBF deregulation mediated by nAChRα7 downregulation. Our mouse model will help clarify the association between type 2 diabetes mellitus and AD.

143. Is the clinical phenotype impact the prognosis in dementia with Lewy bodies?
Abstract: The first predominant clinical symptoms of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) are highly variable; however, the prognosis based on initial predominant symptoms remains poorly understood.

144. Readthrough isoform of aquaporin-4 (AQP4) as a therapeutic target for Alzheimer's disease and other proteinopathies.
Abstract: The glymphatic system is a crucial component in preserving brain homeostasis by facilitating waste clearance from the central nervous system (CNS). Aquaporin-4 (AQP4) water channels facilitate the continuous interchange between cerebrospinal fluid and brain interstitial fluid by convective flow movement. This flow is responsible for guiding proteins and metabolites away from the CNS. Proteinopathies are neurological conditions characterized by the accumulation of aggregated proteins or peptides in the brain. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), the deposition of amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides causes the formation of senile plaques. This accumulation has been hypothesized to be a result of the imbalance between Aβ production and clearance. Recent studies have shown that an extended form of AQP4 increases Aβ clearance from the brain. In this mini-review, we present a summary of these findings and explore the potential for future therapeutic strategies aiming to boost waste clearance in AD.

145. Bayesian estimation for the accuracy of three neuropsychological tests in detecting Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment: a retrospective analysis of the ADNI database.
Abstract: The neuropathological confirmation serves as the gold standard for diagnosing Alzheimer's disease (AD), but it is usually not available to the living individuals. In addition, the gold standard for diagnosing Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) remains unclear yet. Neuropsychological testing, such as the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA), Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-cog), is commonly used tests in identifying AD and MCI, offering convenience, affordability, non-invasiveness, and accessibility in clinical settings. We aimed to accurately evaluate the discriminative ability of the three tests administrated at the same visit simultaneously in detecting AD and MCI due to AD in the absence of a gold standard.

146. Pentoxifylline as Add-On Treatment to Donepezil in Copper Sulphate-Induced Alzheimer's Disease-Like Neurodegeneration in Rats.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common neurodegenerative disorder, is characterized by behavioral, cognitive, and progressive memory impairments. Extensive neuronal loss, extracellular accumulation of insoluble senile amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques, and intracellular neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) are the major pathological features. The present study aimed to investigate the therapeutic effect of donepezil (DON) and pentoxifylline (PTX) in combination to combat the neurodegenerative disorders (experimental AD) induced by CuSO4 intake in experimental rats. Thirty adult male Wistar rats (140-160 g) were used in this study. AD was first induced in rats by CuSO4 supplement to drinking water (10 mg/L) for 14 weeks. The AD group received no further treatment. Oral treatment with DON (10 mg/kg/day), PTX (100 mg/kg/day), or DON + PTX for the other three groups was started from the 10th week of CuSO4 intake for 4 weeks. Cortex markers like acetylcholine (ACh), acetylcholinesterase (AChE), total antioxidant capacity (TAC), and malondialdehyde (MDA) and hippocampus markers like β-amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1), phosphorylated Tau (p-tau), Clusterin (CLU), tumor necrosis factor-α (TNF-α), caspase-9 (CAS-9), Bax, and Bcl-2 were measured. The histopathology studies were done by using hematoxylin and eosin and Congo red stains as well as immunohistochemistry for neurofilament. CuSO4 induced adverse histological and biochemical changes. The histological injury in the hippocampus was inhibited following the administration of the DON and PTX. The brain tissue levels of AChE, MDA, BACE1, p-tau, CLU, CAS-9, Bax, and TNF-α were significantly increased, while brain tissue levels of ACh, TAC, and Bcl-2 were significantly decreased in CuSO4-treated rats as compared with the untreated control group. The effects induced by either DON or PTX on most studied parameters were comparable. Combined treatment of DON and PTX induced remarkable results compared with their individual use. However, more clinical and preclinical studies are still required to further confirm and prove the long-term efficacy of such combination.

147. Blood biomarker-based classification study for neurodegenerative diseases.
Abstract: As the population ages, neurodegenerative diseases are becoming more prevalent, making it crucial to comprehend the underlying disease mechanisms and identify biomarkers to allow for early diagnosis and effective screening for clinical trials. Thanks to advancements in gene expression profiling, it is now possible to search for disease biomarkers on an unprecedented scale.Here we applied a selection of five machine learning (ML) approaches to identify blood-based biomarkers for Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) with the application of multiple feature selection methods. Based on ROC AUC performance, one optimal random forest (RF) model was discovered for AD with 159 gene markers (ROC-AUC = 0.886), while one optimal RF model was discovered for PD (ROC-AUC = 0.743). Additionally, in comparison to traditional ML approaches, deep learning approaches were applied to evaluate their potential applications in future works. We demonstrated that convolutional neural networks perform consistently well across both the Alzheimer's (ROC AUC = 0.810) and Parkinson's (ROC AUC = 0.715) datasets, suggesting its potential in gene expression biomarker detection with increased tuning of their architecture.

148. Synaptic Compensatory Plasticity in Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: The loss of excitatory synapses is known to underlie the cognitive deficits in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although much is known about the mechanisms underlying synaptic loss in AD, how neurons compensate for this loss and whether this provides cognitive benefits remain almost completely unexplored. In this review, we describe two potential compensatory mechanisms implemented following synaptic loss: the enlargement of the surviving neighboring synapses and the regeneration of synapses. Because dendritic spines, the postsynaptic site of excitatory synapses, are easily visualized using light microscopy, we focus on a range of microscopy approaches to monitor synaptic loss and compensation. Here, we stress the importance of longitudinal dendritic spine imaging, as opposed to fixed-tissue imaging, to gain insights into the temporal dynamics of dendritic spine compensation. We believe that understanding the molecular mechanisms behind these and other forms of synaptic compensation and regeneration will be critical for the development of therapeutics aiming at delaying the onset of cognitive deficits in AD.

149. Impose of KNDy/GnRH neural circuit in PCOS, ageing, cancer and Alzheimer's disease: StAR actions in prevention of neuroendocrine dysfunction.
Abstract: The Kisspeptin1 (KISS1)/neurokinin B (NKB)/Dynorphin (Dyn) [KNDy] neurons in the hypothalamus regulate the reproduction stage in human beings and rodents. KNDy neurons co-expressed all KISS1, NKB, and Dyn peptides, and hence commonly regarded as KISS1 neurons. KNDy neurons contribute to the "GnRH pulse generator" and are implicated in the regulation of pulsatile GnRH release. The estradiol (E2)-estrogen receptor (ER) interactions over GnRH neurons in the hypothalamus cause nitric oxide (NO) discharge, in addition to presynaptic GABA and glutamate discharge from respective neurons. The released GABA and glutamate facilitate the activity of GnRH neurons via GABAA-R and AMPA/kainate-R. The KISS1 stimulates MAPK/ERK1/2 signaling and cause the release of Ca2+ from intracellular store, which contribute to neuroendocrine function, increase apoptosis and decrease cell proliferation and metastasis. The ageing in women deteriorates KISS1/KISS1R interaction in the hypothalamus which causes lower levels of GnRH. Because examining the human brain is so challenging, decades of clinical research have failed to find the causes of KNDy/GnRH dysfunction. The KISS1/KISS1R interactions in the brain have a neuroprotective effect against Alzheimer's disease (AD). These findings modulate the pathophysiological role of the KNDy/GnRH neural network in polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) associated with ageing and, its protective role in cancer and AD. This review concludes with protecting effect of the steroid-derived acute regulatory enzyme (StAR) against neurotoxicity in the hippocampus, and hypothalamus, and these measures are fundamental for delaying ageing with PCOS. StAR could serve as novel diagnostic marker and therapeutic target for the most prevalent hormone-sensitive breast cancers (BCs).

150. Apathy-like behaviour in tau mouse models of Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal dementia.
Abstract: Apathy is the most common behavioural and psychological symptom in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other neurodegenerative diseases including frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). In patients, apathy can include symptoms of loss of motivation, initiative, and interest, listlessness, and indifference, flattening of emotions, absence of drive and passion. Researchers have later refined this to a reduction in goal direct behaviours. In animals, specific symptoms of apathy-like behaviour have been modelled including goal directed or nest-building behaviour which are seen as indicative of proxies for motivation and daily activities. In the present study a nest-building protocol was established using four different inbred mouse strains (CD1, BALB/c, C57Bl/6J, C3H) before assessing AD and FTD tau transgenic mice of Line 1 (L1) and Line 66 (L66) in this paradigm. Female mice aged 5 - 6 months were assessed in the home cage over a period of 7 days with nest-building behaviour scored by three independent experimenters at intervals of 1-, 2- and 7-days post nestlet introduction. Inbred mouse strains displayed different levels of nesting behaviour. BALB/c mice were more proficient than CD1 and C3H mice, while all strains displayed similar nest-building behaviour by day 7. In the tau mouse models, L66 presented with impaired nesting compared to wild-type on days 1 and 2 (not day 7), whereas L1 performed like wild-type on all days. Anhedonia measured in a sucrose preference test was only observed in L66. Anhedonia and low nesting scores in L66 mice are indicative of apathy-like phenotypes. Differences evident between the L1 and L66 tau transgenic mouse models are likely due to the different human tau species expressed in these mice.

151. Impact of alternating amino acid sequences on beta-amyloid-induced neurotoxicity and neuroinflammation in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a chronic neurodegenerative disease and the common cause of dementia. The aggregation of beta-amyloid (Aβ peptide) leading to excessive neuroinflammation is considered to be the neuropathological hallmark of AD, although the precise mechanisms remain unclear. Oligomerization of these peptides may be associated with their 42 amino acid residue arrangement. However, the process of amyloid plaque formation is still not well known. The protein folding-shape code (PFSC) method is a powerful tool to analyze protein confirmation which could exhibit the local structural folding features in detail. In our study, we utilized the PFSC to analyze Aβ peptide in humans and mice and found that mouse Aβ42 is less likely to polymerize than human's. Subsequently, we used the PFSC method to analyze the 42 amino acids of Aβ, transformed some species in human Aβ42 and obtained 7 mutants. We showed that it was not easy to aggregate Aβ in mutants. Herein, inflammatory responses were decreased, as indicated by the expression of cytokines. We confirmed that the neurotoxicity of mutant human Aβ was decreased by preventing peptide aggregation. This may represent a new therapeutic approach for treating AD.

152. Bioinformatics analysis of the potential mechanisms of Alzheimer's disease induced by exposure to combined triazine herbicides.
Abstract: The development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is promoted by a combination of genetic and environmental factors. Notably, combined exposure to triazine herbicides atrazine (ATR), simazine (SIM), and propazine (PRO) may promote the development of AD, but the mechanism is unknown.

153. Quercetin-3-O-β-d-glucuronide in the Nuciferine Leaf Polyphenol Extract Promotes Neurogenesis Involving the Upregulation of the Tropomyosin Receptor Kinase (Trk) Receptor and AKT/Phosphoinositide 3-Kinase Signaling Pathway.
Abstract: Neurogenesis is crucial during the human lifespan for the maintenance of synaptic plasticity and normal function. The impairment of hippocampal neurogenesis in adults may lead to neurodegenerative disease, such as Alzheimer's disease. Miquelianin (quercetin-3-O-β-d-glucuronide, Q3GA) is a constituent of the nuciferine leaf polyphenol extract (NLPE), and it has protective effects against neurodegeneration. In this study, we examined the effect of the NLPE on neurogenesis and the mechanisms underlying Q3GA on neurogenesis. We fed 24-week-old male C57BL/6 mice with 0.1 or 0.25% NLPE for 2 weeks. NLPE treatment increased small spindle-shaped stem cell numbers in the subgranular zone and the number of doublecortin (DCX)- and neuron-specific nuclear protein (NeuN)-expressing neurons. HT22, a hippocampal cell line, treated with Q3GA revealed significant neurite growth and upregulated TrkR and PI3K/Akt levels. The evidence from a model of retinoic acid-induced SH-SY5Y cell differentiation showed that Q3GA or NLPE increases neurite growth significantly. Taken together, the NLPE containing Q3GA to promote neurogenesis involving the upregulation of TrkR and the PI3K/Akt signaling pathway might be potentiated as an alternative strategy for the treatment of neurodegeneration.

154. Lexical Speech Features of Spontaneous Speech in Older Persons With and Without Cognitive Impairment: Reliability Analysis.
Abstract: Speech analysis data are promising digital biomarkers for the early detection of Alzheimer disease. However, despite its importance, very few studies in this area have examined whether older adults produce spontaneous speech with characteristics that are sufficiently consistent to be used as proxy markers of cognitive status.

155. Evaluation of N- and O-Linked Indole Triazines for a Dual Effect on α-Synuclein and Tau Aggregation.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disorder underlying dementia in the geriatric population. AD manifests by two pathological hallmarks: extracellular amyloid-β (Aβ) peptide-containing senile plaques and intraneuronal neurofibrillary tangles comprised of aggregated hyperphosphorylated tau protein (p-tau). However, more than half of AD cases also display the presence of aggregated α-synuclein (α-syn)-containing Lewy bodies. Conversely, Lewy bodies disorders have been reported to have concomitant Aβ plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. Our drug discovery program focuses on the synthesis of multitarget-directed ligands to abrogate aberrant α-syn, tau (2N4R), and p-tau (1N4R) aggregation and to slow the progression of AD and related dementias. To this end, we synthesized 11 compounds with a triazine-linker and evaluated their effectiveness in reducing α-syn, tau isoform 2N4R, and p-tau isoform 1N4R aggregation. We utilized biophysical methods such as thioflavin T (ThT) fluorescence assays, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), photoinduced cross-linking of unmodified proteins (PICUP), and M17D intracellular inclusion cell-based assays to evaluate the antiaggregation properties and cellular protection of our best compounds. We also performed disaggregation assays with isolated Aβ-plaques from human AD brains. Our results demonstrated that compound 10 was effective in reducing both oligomerization and fibril formation of α-syn and tau isoform 2N4R in a dose-dependent manner via ThT and PICUP assays. Compound 10 was also effective at reducing the formation of recombinant α-syn, tau 2N4R, and p-tau 1N4R fibrils by TEM. Compound 10 reduced the development of α-syn inclusions in M17D neuroblastoma cells and stopped the seeding of tau P301S using biosensor cells. Disaggregation experiments showed smaller Aβ-plaques and less paired helical filaments with compound 10. Compound 10 may provide molecular scaffolds for further optimization and preclinical studies for neurodegenerative proteinopathies.

156. Anti-Aging of the Nervous System and Related Neurodegenerative Diseases With Chinese Herbal Medicine.
Abstract: Human beings have always pursued a prolonged lifespan, while the aging of the nervous system is associated with a large variety of diseases. Pathological aging of the nervous system results in a series of neurodegenerative diseases and can cause disability and death in the elderly. Therefore, there is an urgent need for the prevention and treatment of nervous system aging. Chinese herbal medicines have a long history, featuring rich and safe ingredients, and have great potential for the development of anti-aging treatment. We searched the publications on PubMed with key words "anti-aging of the nervous system" and "Chinese herbal medicine" in recent 10 years, and found sixteen Chinese herbal medicines. Then by comparing their popularity of use as well as active components based on the research articles, five common Chinese herbal medicines namely Ginseng Radix, Lycii Fructus, Astragali Radix, Coptidis Rhizoma and Ginkgo Folium, were confirmed to be the most related to anti-nervous system aging and neural degenerative diseases. At the same time, the active ingredients, research models, action mechanisms and curative effects of these five common Chinese herbal medicines were reviewed. From the five common Chinese herbal medicines reviewed in this paper, many encouraging effects of Chinese herbal medicines on treating nervous system aging and related diseases were revealed and more potent herbs would be explored with the help of the proposed possible mechanisms.

157. Gamma Secretase as an Important Drug Target for Management of Alzheimer's Disease: A Comprehensive Review.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurological disease that affects the memory. AD has been attributed to the aggregations of amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides which result in the formation of plaques that block the neuron-transferring process done by the brain memory cells. These plaques are formed upon cleavage of Amyloid Precursor Protein (APP) by Gamma-Secretase (GS). GS protein has around 141 substrates, the important two are APP and Notch. Considering one of the hot spots in AD research, we focused on GS and its relation to AD. Moreover, a lot of research was done on beta-secretase and drugs were developed to target it however, few drugs are established for GS. GS contains four subunits: Presenilin (PS), PEN-2, Nicastrin, and APH-1. The catalytic subunit is PS, which contains the active site for substrate binding, as well as the allosteric and docking sites. Both PEN-2 and APH-1 are regulators for the stability and activity of GS. Nicastrin, helps the substrates bind to the PS. Additionally, the role of the immuno-protein named "IFITM3" and how it affects the immune system and its relation to AD is presented. GS is one of the most studied proteins with many developed candidates as inhibitors (GSI) and modulators (GSM). Examples of GSI are Semagacestat and Avagacestat while GSM includes E2012; which inhibits the cleavage activity of GS. In this report, each of the four subunits of GS is described in detail, along with the interactions between GS and its inhibitors or modulators. In addition, the FDA-approved drugs are enlisted.

158. Navigating Early Alzheimer's Diagnosis: A Comprehensive Review of Diagnostic Innovations.
Abstract: The hunt for early Alzheimer's disease detection has created cutting-edge diagnostic instruments with enormous promise. This article examines the many facets of these developments, focusing on how they have revolutionised diagnosis and patient outcomes. These tools make it possible to detect tiny brain changes even before they give birth to clinical symptoms by combining cutting-edge biomarkers, neuroimaging methods, and machine-learning algorithms. A significant opportunity for therapies that can slow the course of the disease exists during this early detection stage. Additionally, these cutting-edge techniques improve diagnostic precision, objectivity, and accessibility. Liquid biopsies and blood-based biomarkers provide non-invasive alternatives, filling accessibility gaps in diagnosis. While issues with standardisation, ethics, and data integration continue, collaboration within research, clinical practice, and policy realms fuels positive developments. As technology advances, the way towards better Alzheimer's diagnosis becomes more evident, giving patients and families dealing with this difficult illness fresh hope. The synergy between scientific advancement and compassionate treatment is crucial for improving Alzheimer's disease diagnosis, as this paper emphasises.

159. Temporal associations between treated and untreated hearing loss and mild behavioral impairment in older adults without dementia.
Abstract: Hearing loss (HL) and mild behavioral impairment (MBI) are non-cognitive markers of dementia. This study investigated the relationship between hearing and MBI and explored the influence of hearing aid use on the treatment of hearing loss, both cross-sectionally and longitudinally.

160. A meta-analysis of neurogenic exosomes in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an irreversible and difficult-to-treat neurodegenerative disease. It is necessary to search for reliable biomarkers for the early diagnosis of AD in a timely and effective manner in high-risk or preclinical AD populations. Studies have shown that neurogenic exosomes in the blood can be effectively used as biomarkers for AD.

161. Testing for Allele-specific Expression from Human Brain Samples.
Abstract: Many single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) identified by genome-wide association studies exert their effects on disease risk as expression quantitative trait loci (eQTL) via allele-specific expression (ASE). While databases for probing eQTLs in tissues from normal individuals exist, one may wish to ascertain eQTLs or ASE in specific tissues or disease-states not characterized in these databases. Here, we present a protocol to assess ASE of two possible target genes (GPNMB and KLHL7) of a known genome-wide association study (GWAS) Parkinson's disease (PD) risk locus in postmortem human brain tissue from PD and neurologically normal individuals. This was done using a sequence of RNA isolation, cDNA library generation, enrichment for transcripts of interest using customizable cDNA capture probes, paired-end RNA sequencing, and subsequent analysis. This method provides increased sensitivity relative to traditional bulk RNAseq-based and a blueprint that can be extended to the study of other genes, tissues, and disease states. Key features • Analysis of GPNMB allele-specific expression (ASE) in brain lysates from cognitively normal controls (NC) and Parkinson's disease (PD) individuals. • Builds on the ASE protocol of Mayba et al. (2014) and extends application from cells to human tissue. • Increased sensitivity by enrichment for desired transcript via RNA CaptureSeq (Mercer et al., 2014). • Optimized for human brain lysates from cingulate gyrus, caudate nucleus, and cerebellum.

162. Periodontal health status of people with dementia - A systematic review of case-control studies.
Abstract: The number of older people increases globally, so is the risk of cognitive impairment. Periodontal diseases are common among older adults with significant tooth loss and periodontal problems. Thus, this review explored the periodontal disease conditions among individuals with and without dementia.

163. An Overview of the Pharmacological Properties of Calebin-A.
Abstract: The natural polyphenol, calebin-A, was recently discovered and identified as a novel phytopharmaceutical with anti-inflammatory, anti-tumor, and antiproliferative properties. Calebin-A occurs naturally in trace quantities in Curcuma longa/C cassia, commonly known as turmeric, from the Zingiberaceae family. Calebin-A is a curcumin analog or 'chemical cousin' of curcumin with a similar chemical structure. Although few research studies have been conducted on the pharmacological and therapeutic properties of calebin-A, it is a very promising molecule with a variety of pharmacological properties. Some studies have suggested that calebin-A is helpful in treating various cancers due to its inhibitory effect on cell growth and anti-inflammatory properties. Other studies have suggested that calebin-A may improve neurocognitive status associated with neurodegeneration caused by Alzheimer's disease (AD) by inhibiting the aggregation of β-amyloid. Finally, several studies have proposed that calebin-A may potentially be therapeutically beneficial in treating patients with obesity. This novel compound downregulates nuclear factor (NF)-κB-mediated processes involved with cancer, such as tumor cell invasion, proliferation, metastasis, and, most profoundly, inflammation. Moreover, calebin-A influences the activities of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) in cancer cells. The present review identifies and discusses the pharmacological and phytochemical properties of calebin-A, as well as its therapeutic benefits and limitations, for future scientists and clinicians interested in exploring calebin-A's medicinal qualities.

164. Angiotensin II-mediated hippocampal hypoperfusion and vascular dysfunction contribute to vascular cognitive impairment in aged hypertensive rats.
Abstract: Chronic hypertension increases the risk of vascular cognitive impairment (VCI) by ∼60%; however, how hypertension affects the vasculature of the hippocampus remains unclear but could contribute to VCI.

165. Practice makes imperfect: stronger implicit interference with practice in individuals at high risk of developing Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Early screening to determine patient risk of developing Alzheimer's will allow better interventions and planning but necessitates accessible methods such as behavioral biomarkers. Previously, we showed that cognitively healthy older individuals whose cerebrospinal fluid amyloid/tau ratio indicates high risk of cognitive decline experienced implicit interference during a high-effort task, signaling early changes in attention. To further investigate attention's effect on implicit interference, we analyzed two experiments completed sequentially by the same high- and low-risk individuals. We hypothesized that if attention modulates interference, practice would affect the influence of implicit distractors. Indeed, while both groups experienced a strong practice effect, the association between practice and interference effects diverged between groups: stronger practice effects correlated with more implicit interference in high-risk participants, but less interference in low-risk individuals. Furthermore, low-risk individuals showed a positive correlation between implicit interference and EEG low-range alpha event-related desynchronization when switching from high- to low-load tasks. This suggests that lower attention on the task was correlated with stronger interference, a typical phenomenon in the younger population. These results demonstrate how attention impacts implicit interference and highlight early differences in perception between high- and low-risk individuals.

166. The autophagy protein Def8 is altered in Alzheimer's disease and Aβ42-expressing Drosophila brains.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder, characterized by protein accumulation in the brain as a main neuropathological hallmark. Among them, Aβ42 peptides tend to aggregate and create oligomers and plaques. Macroautophagy, a form of autophagy characterized by a double-membrane vesicle, plays a crucial role in maintaining neuronal homeostasis by degrading protein aggregates and dysfunctional organelles as a quality control process. Recently, DEF8, a relatively uncharacterized protein, has been proposed as a participant in vesicular traffic and autophagy pathways. We have reported increased DEF8 levels in lymphocytes from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and early-stage AD patients and a neuronal profile in a murine transgenic AD model. Here, we analyzed DEF8 localization and levels in the postmortem frontal cortex of AD patients, finding increased levels compared to healthy controls. To evaluate the potential function of DEF8 in the nervous system, we performed an in silico assessment of its expression and network profiles, followed by an in vivo evaluation of a neuronal Def8 deficient model using a Drosophila melanogaster model of AD based on Aβ42 expression. Our findings show that DEF8 is an essential protein for maintaining cellular homeostasis in the nervous system, and it is upregulated under stress conditions generated by Aβ42 aggregation. This study suggests DEF8 as a novel actor in the physiopathology of AD, and its exploration may lead to new treatment avenues.

167. Large Language Models in Neurology Research and Future Practice.
Abstract: Recent advancements in generative artificial intelligence, particularly using large language models (LLMs), are gaining increased public attention. We provide a perspective on the potential of LLMs to analyze enormous amounts of data from medical records and gain insights on specific topics in neurology. Additionally, we explore use cases for LLMs such as early diagnosis, supporting patient and caregivers, and acting as an assistant for clinicians. We point to the potential ethical and technical challenges raised by LLMs, such as concerns about privacy and data security, potential biases in the data for model training, and the need for careful validation of results. Researchers must consider these challenges and take steps to address them to ensure that their work is conducted in a safe and responsible manner. Despite these challenges, LLMs offer promising opportunities for improving care and treatment of various neurological disorders.

168. Teaching NeuroImage: Severe Amyloid-Related Imaging Abnormalities After Anti-β-Amyloid Monoclonal Antibody Treatment.
Abstract: Abstract not available for PMID: 37816643

169. Roles and usages of neuro service dogs for caregivers living at home with persons with dementia: An exploratory comparative case study.
Abstract: The goal of the present study was to examine how canine assistance may support family caregivers and persons with dementia and to document and compare two modalities of home care support. An exploratory comparative case study research design was conducted. Three cases correspond of dyads of a caregiver, a person with mild to moderate dementia, and either a neuro service dog (NSD), a companion dog or no dog. Hypotheses are formulated to capture differences between cases. Recruitment was done in a service dog organisation, through Canadian Alzheimer associations and in records of a hospital. Data were collected through 45-60 minutes telephone interviews that included completion of the Caregiver's Burden Scale and sociodemographic questions. We used an inductive approach with qualitative data. There were five caregivers (mean age 54.8 years) who had an NSD, 28 caregivers (63.6 years) who had a companion dog, and 23 caregivers (63.8 years) without dog. In the category of roles and usages of the dog, 'Socialisation' and 'Help with a sense of direction' were the most addressed roles for dyads with the NSD. For dyads with companion dog and without dog, 'Engagement-and-meaning of life' as well as 'Physical activity with the dog' were the most discussed roles. The 'Sleep or wake up' role was the least discussed role across three cases. In the other categories, they were seven advantages and 10 inconvenients that were mentioned for canine assistance. For home care support, the presence of NSD has more positive impacts on both the person with dementia and their caregiver compared to the presence of a companion dog; the presence of a NSD results in the person with dementia accessing more indoor and outdoor public sites than with a companion dog; and dyads with a dog are informally socially engaged more frequently than those with no dog.

170. Human Presenilin-1 delivered by AAV9 rescues impaired γ-secretase activity, memory deficits, and neurodegeneration in Psen mutant mice.
Abstract: Mutations in the Presenilin (PSEN1 and PSEN2) genes are the major cause of early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD). Presenilin (PS) is the catalytic subunit of the γ-secretase complex, which cleaves type I transmembrane proteins, such as Notch and the amyloid precursor protein (APP), and plays an evolutionarily conserved role in the protection of neuronal survival during aging. FAD PSEN1 mutations exhibit impaired γ-secretase activity in cell culture, in vitro, and knockin (KI) mouse brains, and the L435F mutation is the most severe in reducing γ-secretase activity and is located closest to the active site of γ-secretase. Here, we report that introduction of the codon-optimized wild-type human PSEN1 cDNA by adeno-associated virus 9 (AAV9) results in broadly distributed, sustained, low to moderate levels of human PS1 (hPS1) expression and rescues impaired γ-secretase activity in the cerebral cortex of Psen mutant mice either lacking PS or expressing the Psen1 L435F KI allele, as evaluated by endogenous γ-secretase substrates of APP and recombinant γ-secretase products of Notch intracellular domain and Aβ peptides. Furthermore, introduction of hPS1 by AAV9 alleviates impairments of synaptic plasticity and learning and memory in Psen mutant mice. Importantly, AAV9 delivery of hPS1 ameliorates neurodegeneration in the cerebral cortex of aged Psen mutant mice, as shown by the reversal of age-dependent loss of cortical neurons and elevated microgliosis and astrogliosis. These results together show that moderate hPS1 expression by AAV9 is sufficient to rescue impaired γ-secretase activity, synaptic and memory deficits, and neurodegeneration caused by Psen mutations in mouse models.

171. Microglia and Astrocytes in Alzheimer's Disease: Significance and Summary of Recent Advances.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease, one of the most common forms of dementia, is characterized by a slow progression of cognitive impairment and neuronal loss. Currently, approved treatments for AD are hindered by various side effects and limited efficacy. Despite considerable research, practical treatments for AD have not been developed. Increasing evidence shows that glial cells, especially microglia and astrocytes, are essential in the initiation and progression of AD. During AD progression, activated resident microglia increases the ability of resting astrocytes to transform into reactive astrocytes, promoting neurodegeneration. Extensive clinical and molecular studies show the involvement of microglia and astrocyte-mediated neuroinflammation in AD pathology, indicating that microglia and astrocytes may be potential therapeutic targets for AD. This review will summarize the significant and recent advances of microglia and astrocytes in the pathogenesis of AD in three parts. First, we will review the typical pathological changes of AD and discuss microglia and astrocytes in terms of function and phenotypic changes. Second, we will describe microglia and astrocytes' physiological and pathological role in AD. These roles include the inflammatory response, "eat me" and "don't eat me" signals, Aβ seeding, propagation, clearance, synapse loss, synaptic pruning, remyelination, and demyelination. Last, we will review the pharmacological and non-pharmacological therapies targeting microglia and astrocytes in AD. We conclude that microglia and astrocytes are essential in the initiation and development of AD. Therefore, understanding the new role of microglia and astrocytes in AD progression is critical for future AD studies and clinical trials. Moreover, pharmacological, and non-pharmacological therapies targeting microglia and astrocytes, with specific studies investigating microglia and astrocyte-mediated neuronal damage and repair, may be a promising research direction for future studies regarding AD treatment and prevention.

172. Computational Study on the Enzyme-Ligand Relationship between Cannabis Phytochemicals and Human Acetylcholinesterase: Implications in Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Cannabis has shown promise in treating various neurological disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). AD is a devastating neurodegenerative disorder that affects millions of people worldwide. Current treatments for AD are limited and are not very effective. This study investigated the enzyme-ligand relationship between nine active components of cannabis and human acetylcholinesterase (HuAChE) enzyme, which is significant in AD. Specifically, computational methods such as quantum mechanics, molecular docking, molecular dynamics, and free energy calculations were used to identify the cannabis phytochemicals with the highest HuAChE affinity and to understand the specific binding mechanisms involved. Our results showed that cannabichromene and cannabigerol were the cannabis phytochemicals with the highest affinity for HuAChE, with cannabichromene exhibiting the greatest binding energy. However, both substances showed lower affinity than that of the pharmaceutical drug donepezil. This study suggests that cannabichromene has a specific affinity for the peripheral anionic site (PAS) and acyl-binding pocket (ABP), while cannabigerol predominantly binds to PAS. Also, it was found that cannabichromene has a specific affinity for PAS and ABP, while cannabigerol predominantly binds to PAS. Our findings suggest that cannabichromene and cannabigerol are potential therapeutic agents, but further research is needed to validate their effectiveness. The specific binding mechanisms identified may also provide helpful information for the design of more effective cannabis-based drugs. Overall, this study provides valuable insights into the potential of cannabis-based drugs for treating neurological diseases.

173. Pre-clinical Aspects and Contemporary Treatments of Parkinson's Disease.
Abstract: After Alzheimer's disease, the second slot for the most common neurodegenerative disease, is occupied by Parkinson's disease. The symptoms of Parkinson's are classified as motor symptoms and non-motor symptoms. Motor symptoms involve rigidity, tremors, bradykinesia, and postural instability. Non-motor symptoms consist of cognitive dysfunction, salivation, lacrimation, etc. Objectives: The objectives of this study are to find out the most recent treatment options for Parkinson's disease.

174. Phytochemicals-based β-amyloid cleaving enzyme-1 and MAO-B inhibitors for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease: molecular simulations-based predictions.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is among the highly prevalent neurodegenerative disorder of the aging brain and is allied with cognitive and behavioral abnormalities. Unfortunately, there is very limited drug discovery for the effective management of AD, and the clinically approved drugs have limited efficacy. Consequently, there is an immediate demand for the development of new compounds that have the ability to act as multitarget-directed ligands (MTDLs). As major pathological targets of the disease, the current study aimed to investigate lead natural bioactive compounds including apigenin, epigallocatechin-3-gallate, berberine, curcumin, genistein, luteolin, quercetin, resveratrol for their inhibitory potentials against β-amyloid cleaving enzyme-1 (BACE1) and monoamine oxidase-B (MAO-B) enzymes. The study compounds were docked against the target enzymes (MAO-B and BACE1) using MOE software and subsequent molecular dynamics simulations (MDS) studies. The molecular docking analysis revealed that these phytochemicals (MTDLs) showed good interactions with the target enzymes as compared to the reference inhibitors. Among these eight phytocompounds, the epigallocatechin-3-gallate compound was an active inhibitor against both drug targets, with the highest docking scores and good interactions with the active residues of the enzymes. Furthermore, the docking result of the active one inhibitor in complex with the target enzymes (epigallocatechin-3-gallate/BACE1, epigallocatechin-3-gallate/MAO-B, reference/BACE1 and reference/MAO-B) were further validated by MDS. According to the findings of our study, epigallocatechin-3-gallate has the potential to be a candidate for use in the treatment of neurological illnesses like AD. This compound has MTDL potential and may be exploited to create new compounds with disease-modifying features.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.

175. Detection of prions in the urine of patients affected by sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
Abstract: Currently, it is unknown whether infectious prions are present in peripheral tissues and biological fluids of patients affected by sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD), the most common prion disorder in humans. This represents a potential risk for inter-individual prion infection. The main goal of this study was to evaluate the presence of prions in urine of patients suffering from the major subtypes of sCJD.

176. Intricate relationship between obstructive sleep apnea and dementia in older adults.
Abstract: Numerous evidence reports direct correlation between cognitive impairment, Alzheimer's disease and sleep disorders, in particular obstructive sleep apnea. Both obstructive sleep apnea and Alzheimer's disease are highly prevalent conditions whose incidence increases with age. Several studies demonstrate how sleep-disordered breathing may lead to poor cognition, even though the underlying mechanisms of this association remain partially unclear. According to the most recent studies, obstructive sleep apnea may be considered a modifiable risk factor for cognitive dysfunction. In the present review, the authors aim to integrate recent research examining obstructive sleep apnea and Alzheimer's disease biomarkers, also focusing on the mechanisms that support this correlation, including but not limited to the role of hypoxia and cardiovascular risk. Moreover, the potential favourable effect of obstructive sleep apnea therapy on cognitive function is discussed, to evaluate the benefits deriving from appropriate treatment of sleep-disordered breathing on cognition.

177. MAO-B Inhibitor (2E)-3-(4-Bromophenyl)-1-(1H-indol-3-yl) prop-2-en-1-one as a Neuroprotective Agent Against Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Chalcones (trans-1,3-diphenyl-2-propen-1-ones) form simple chemical structures that act as precursors for the biogenesis of flavonoids. These are distributed in plants and have two aromatic or heteroaromatic rings connected by a three-carbon α, β-unsaturated carbonyl group. Considering the importance of chalcones as monoamine oxidase and acetylcholinesterase inhibitors, the study was designed as a comprehensive and systematic analysis to evaluate the pharmacological activities leading to the formation of drug molecules against Alzheimer's disease (AD). Based on our previous research, 11 indolyl chalcones (IC1-IC11) were synthesised and investigated for MAO-B inhibitory activity. The inhibitory potential was evaluated based on binding and reversibility studies using purified enzymes. The active and most promising molecule, (2E)-3-(4-bromophenyl)-1-(1H-indol-3-yl) prop-2-en-1-one (IC9), also found predominant acetylcholinesterase inhibition and hence it was found dual acting in vitro. Based on this, the molecule IC9 was further subjected to cell line studies to further explore its role as a neuroprotective agent against neuronal degeneration, one of the main contributing parameters related to AD.

178. Bayesian bi-level variable selection for genome-wide survival study.
Abstract: Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a clinical syndrome characterized by the onset and evolution of cognitive impairments, often considered a transitional stage to Alzheimer's disease (AD). The genetic traits of MCI patients who experience a rapid progression to AD can enhance early diagnosis capabilities and facilitate drug discovery for AD. While a genome-wide association study (GWAS) is a standard tool for identifying single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) related to a disease, it fails to detect SNPs with small effect sizes due to stringent control for multiple testing. Additionally, the method does not consider the group structures of SNPs, such as genes or linkage disequilibrium blocks, which can provide valuable insights into the genetic architecture. To address the limitations, we propose a Bayesian bi-level variable selection method that detects SNPs associated with time of conversion from MCI to AD. Our approach integrates group inclusion indicators into an accelerated failure time model to identify important SNP groups. Additionally, we employ data augmentation techniques to impute censored time values using a predictive posterior. We adapt Dirichlet-Laplace shrinkage priors to incorporate the group structure for SNP-level variable selection. In the simulation study, our method outperformed other competing methods regarding variable selection. The analysis of Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) data revealed several genes directly or indirectly related to AD, whereas a classical GWAS did not identify any significant SNPs.

179. Identification and structural and biophysical characterization of a positive modulator of human Kv3.1 channels.
Abstract: Voltage-gated potassium channels (Kv) are tetrameric membrane proteins that provide a highly selective pathway for potassium ions (K+) to diffuse across a hydrophobic cell membrane. These unique voltage-gated cation channels detect changes in membrane potential and, upon activation, help to return the depolarized cell to a resting state during the repolarization stage of each action potential. The Kv3 family of potassium channels is characterized by a high activation potential and rapid kinetics, which play a crucial role for the fast-spiking neuronal phenotype. Mutations in the Kv3.1 channel have been shown to have implications in various neurological diseases like epilepsy and Alzheimer's disease. Moreover, disruptions in neuronal circuitry involving Kv3.1 have been correlated with negative symptoms of schizophrenia. Here, we report the discovery of a novel positive modulator of Kv3.1, investigate its biophysical properties, and determine the cryo-EM structure of the compound in complex with Kv3.1. Structural analysis reveals the molecular determinants of positive modulation in Kv3.1 channels by this class of compounds and provides additional opportunities for rational drug design for the treatment of associated neurological disorders.

180. Implications of intrinsic disorder and functional proteomics in the merkel cell polyomavirus life cycle.
Abstract: Infection with merkel cell polyomavirus (MCPyV) is implicated in the development of merkel cell carcinoma (MCC), a rare but aggressive skin cancer. MCC has a mortality rate near 50%, and incidence has been rapidly increasing in recent decades, making development of improved treatment strategies critical to addressing its growing social burden. The parallel increasing necessity for novel research to better understand MCPyV pathogenesis has prompted numerous studies in recent years, yet the role of intrinsic disorder in MCPyV proteins remains unexplored. This study carries out computational characterization of intrinsic disorder within the MCPyV proteome and suggests mechanisms that may contribute to the oncogenicity of the virus to invade and hijack host immune systems. Our analysis finds that significant levels of intrinsic disorder are present in proteins LT, ALTO, 57kT, and VP1, and suggests that regions of sT may also contain large, disordered regions. The investigation further shows correlation of disorder propensity with the outputs for functional predictors of eukaryotic linear motifs (ELMs), molecular recognition features (MoRFs), and propensity for liquid-liquid phase separation (LLPS). Our findings indicate that MCPyV may use disorder and phase condensation to alter viral function that may accentuate or provide the basis for oncogenic activities. It is intended that this study will inform future experimental validation efforts around the phase separation capacity of MCPyV and its host protein-protein interactions. Furthermore, we hope to inform other investigators on the potential role of disorder in the MCPyV life cycle toward ultimately progressing the development of novel therapeutic agents.

181. Coadaptation Between Smart Technologies and Older Adults Over Time: Protocol for a Scoping Review.
Abstract: The Internet of Things (IoT) has gained significant attention due to advancements in technology and has potential applications in meeting the needs of an aging population. Smart technologies, a subset of IoT, can support older adults in aging in place, promoting independent living and improving their quality of life. However, there is a lack of research on how older adults and smart technologies coadapt over time to maximize their benefits and sustain adoption.

182. Amyloid Positron Emission Tomography and Subsequent Health Care Use Among Medicare Beneficiaries With Mild Cognitive Impairment or Dementia.
Abstract: Results of amyloid positron emission tomography (PET) have been shown to change the management of patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or dementia who meet Appropriate Use Criteria (AUC).

183. Tau Oligomer-Containing Synapse Elimination by Microglia and Astrocytes in Alzheimer Disease.
Abstract: Factors associated with synapse loss beyond amyloid-β plaques and neurofibrillary tangles may more closely correlate with the emergence of cognitive deficits in Alzheimer disease (AD) and be relevant for early therapeutic intervention.

184. NGS study in a sicilian case series with a genetic diagnosis for Gerstmann-Sträussler-Scheinker syndrome (PRNP, p.P102L).
Abstract: Gerstmann Sträussler Scheinker (GSS) is an inherited, invariably fatal prion disease. Like other human prion diseases, GSS is caused by missense mutations in the prion protein (PrP) gene (PRNP), and by the formation and overtime accumulation of the misfolded, pathogenic scrapie PrP (PrPSc). The first mutation identified in the PRNP gene, and the one blamed as the main cause of the disease, is c.C305T:p.P102L.

185. Immunotherapies Targeting Amyloid and Tau Protein in Alzheimer's Disease: Should We Move Away from Diseases and Focus on Biological Targets? A Systematic Review and Expert Opinion.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia worldwide, making it a major public health issue. Anti-amyloid and anti-tau antibodies are the most advanced therapeutic approach at present. Three drugs (lecanemab, donanemab and aducanumab) are on track to be marketed in the coming months. In this systematic review, we review all Phase 2 and Phase 3 clinical trials conducted in this indication and the particularities of the molecules tested.

186. Alterations of Audiovisual Integration in Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Audiovisual integration is a vital information process involved in cognition and is closely correlated with aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this review, we evaluated the altered audiovisual integrative behavioral symptoms in AD. We further analyzed the relationships between AD pathologies and audiovisual integration alterations bidirectionally and suggested the possible mechanisms of audiovisual integration alterations underlying AD, including the imbalance between energy demand and supply, activity-dependent degeneration, disrupted brain networks, and cognitive resource overloading. Then, based on the clinical characteristics including electrophysiological and imaging data related to audiovisual integration, we emphasized the value of audiovisual integration alterations as potential biomarkers for the early diagnosis and progression of AD. We also highlighted that treatments targeted audiovisual integration contributed to widespread pathological improvements in AD animal models and cognitive improvements in AD patients. Moreover, investigation into audiovisual integration alterations in AD also provided new insights and comprehension about sensory information processes.

187. Petroselinum crispum Extract Prevents Lens Damage in Scopolamine-Induced Cognitive Dysfunction.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease that occurs especially in advanced ages. It reduces quality of life of both the patient and their relatives. In addition to its primary effects, AD causes metabolic defects and tissues are damaged due to these effects. Oxidative stress damages cells by disrupting antioxidant/oxidant balance in many tissues, especially due to AD. In individuals with AD and the elderly, lens tissue is damaged due to oxidative stress and may cause vision loss. Therefore, it is very important to investigate herbal products that both prevent/cure AD and reduce AD-related oxidative stress, as they may have fewer side effects. In this study, the protective effects of parsley extract on lens tissues of experimental AD model induced by scopolamine were examined and evaluated through biochemical parameters. The result of biochemical experiments and principal component analysis, it was observed that parsley extract had a therapeutic effect by reducing oxidative stress in lens tissues of experimentally induced AD rats. It can be suggested that the phenolic and flavonoid-rich content of parsley extract may have caused the reduction of oxidative damage in lens tissues and can be used to protect lens tissue against oxidative stress due to AD disease.

188. An exploration of binding of Hesperidin, Rutin, and Thymoquinone to acetylcholinesterase enzyme using multi-level computational approaches.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease, an intricate neurological disorder, is impacting an ever-increasing number of individuals globally, particularly among the aging population. For several decades phytochemicals were used as Ayurveda to treat both communicable and non-communicable diseases. Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is a widely chosen therapeutic target for the development of early prevention and effective management of neurodegenerative diseases. The primary objective of the present study was to investigate the binding potential between Rutin Thymoquinone, Hesperidin and the FDA-approved drug Donepezil with AChE. Additionally, a comparative analysis was conducted. These phytochemicals were docked with the binding site of the AChE experimental complex. The molecular dockings demonstrated that the Hesperidinh showed a better binding affinity of -22.0631 kcal/mol. The ADME/T investigations revealed that the selected phytochemicals are non-toxic and drug-like candidates. Molecular dynamics simulations were implemented to determine the conformational changes of Rutin, hesperidin, Thymoquinone, and Donepezil complexed with AChE. Hesperidin and Donepezil were more stable than Rutin, Thymoquinone complexed with AChE. Next, essential dynamics and defining the secondary structure of protein were to determine the conformational changes in AChE complexed with selected phytochemicals during simulations. Overall, the MD Simulations demonstrated that all complexes in this study achieved stability until 100 ns of the simulation period was performed thrice. The structural analysis of AChE was done using multiple search engines to explore the molecular functions, biological processes, and pathways in which AChE proteins are involved and to identify potential drug targets for various diseases. This present study concludes that Hesperidin was found to be a more potent AChE inhibitors than Rutin, and further experiments are required to determine the effectivity of Hesperidin against neurodegenerative diseases.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.

189. Specific aspects of religious involvement protect against depressive symptoms among immigrant versus U.S.-born, Hispanic older adults.
Abstract: This study investigates religious involvement and depressive symptoms in Hispanic older adults in the United States. We hypothesized that private prayer, religious attendance, and religious belief would have an inverse association with depressive symptoms, and that these associations would be stronger among immigrants, compared to U.S.-born participants.

190. Etiology of Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder and the primary cause of dementia in the elderly. The research on AD has markedly evolved since discovering the pathological hallmarks in the brain over the past years. However, the etiology of AD has not been completely elucidated, and presently there is no cure for AD. Furthermore, despite the disease hallmarks commonly manifested in all AD cases, considerable evidence suggests complex heterogeneity of AD pathogenesis. Specifically, studies have identified several disease genes that cause or associate with AD and discovered multiple modifiable risk factors of AD, which may further aggregate the complex etiology of AD. Understanding molecular mechanisms of AD genes and modifying risk factors of AD are making it possible to develop effective interventions to prevent or cure the disease, which may in turn help understand the disease etiology. Recently, there has been keen interest in carrying out multidisciplinary investigations on AD, e.g., the studies on the molecular basis in association with neural network abnormalities in AD. Furthermore, the molecular findings on the pathogenetics of AD have provided translational proof-of-concept to intervene in AD, which has inspired clinical trials by reducing disease neuropathology related to AD genes or risk factors of AD. This article's main aim is to highlight recent progress on the mechanisms and approaches with an attempt to gain an integrated perspective of AD etiology. We envision that this article and its referenced reports may provide a valuable point of reflection that may not only acknowledge past discoveries, but also stimulate future studies, advancing the understanding of the complex etiology of AD and the development of effective therapeutics for AD.

191. Progressive tauopathy disrupts breathing stability and chemoreflexes during presumptive sleep in mice.
Abstract: Rationale: Although sleep apnea occurs in over 50% of individuals with Alzheimer's Disease (AD) or related tauopathies, little is known concerning the potential role of tauopathy in the pathogenesis of sleep apnea. Here, we tested the hypotheses that, during presumptive sleep, a murine model of tauopathy (rTg4510) exhibits: 1) increased breathing instability; 2) impaired chemoreflex function; and 3) exacerbation of these effects with tauopathy progression. Methods: rTg4510 mice initially develop robust tauopathy in the hippocampus and cortex, and eventually progresses to the brainstem. Type I and II post-sigh apnea, Type III (spontaneous) apnea, sigh, and hypopnea incidence were measured in young adult (5-6 months; n = 10-14/group) and aged (13-15 months; n = 22-24/group) non-transgenic (nTg), monogenic control tetracycline transactivator, and bigenic rTg4510 mice using whole-body plethysmography during presumptive sleep (i.e., eyes closed, curled/laying posture, stable breathing for >200 breaths) while breathing room air (21% O2). Peripheral and central chemoreceptor sensitivity were assessed with transient exposures (5 min) to hyperoxia (100% O2) or hypercapnia (3% and 5% CO2 in 21% O2), respectively. Results: We report significant increases in Type I, II, and III apneas (all p < 0.001), sighs (p = 0.002) and hypopneas (p < 0.001) in aged rTg4510 mice, but only Type III apneas in young adult rTg4510 mice (p < 0.001) versus age-matched nTg controls. Aged rTg4510 mice exhibited profound chemoreflex impairment versus age matched nTg and tTA mice. In rTg4510 mice, breathing frequency, tidal volume and minute ventilation were not affected by hyperoxic or hypercapnic challenges, in striking contrast to controls. Histological examination revealed hyperphosphorylated tau in brainstem regions involved in the control of breathing (e.g., pons, medullary respiratory column, retrotrapezoid nucleus) in aged rTg4510 mice. Neither breathing instability nor hyperphosphorylated tau in brainstem tissues were observed in young adult rTg4510 mice. Conclusion: Older rTg4510 mice exhibit profound impairment in the neural control of breathing, with greater breathing instability and near absence of oxygen and carbon-dioxide chemoreflexes. Breathing impairments paralleled tauopathy progression into brainstem regions that control breathing. These findings are consistent with the idea that tauopathy per se undermines chemoreflexes and promotes breathing instability during sleep.

192. Identifying underlying patterns in Alzheimer's disease trajectory: a deep learning approach and Mendelian randomization analysis.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a heterogeneously progressive neurodegeneration disorder with varied rates of deterioration, either between subjects or within different stages of a certain subject. Estimating the course of AD at early stages has treatment implications. We aimed to analyze disease progression to identify distinct patterns in AD trajectory.

193. Making the case for prophylactic use of betaine to promote brain health in young (15-24 year old) athletes at risk for concussion.
Abstract: Betaine supplementation in the context of human nutrition, athletic performance, and clinical therapy demonstrate that the osmolyte and methyl donor, betaine, is cytoprotective and beneficial to human health. These studies also demonstrate that betaine supplementation in healthy humans is straight-forward with no reported adverse effects. Here, we explore betaine uptake in the central nervous system (CNS) and contribute to evidence that betaine may be uniquely protective to the brain. We specifically describe the therapeutic potential of betaine and explore the potential implications of betaine on inhibition mediated by GABA and glycine neurotransmission. The influence of betaine on neurophysiology complement betaine's role as an osmolyte and metabolite and is consistent with clinical evidence of betaine-mediated improvements to cognitive function (reported in elderly populations) and its anti-convulsant properties. Betaine's therapeutic potential in neurological disorders including epilepsy and neurodegenerative diseases combined with benefits of betaine supplementation on athletic performance support the unique application of betaine as a prophylaxis to concussion. As an example, we identify young athletes (15-24 years old), especially females, for prophylactic betaine supplementation to promote brain health and resilience in a cohort at high risk for concussion and for developing Alzheimer's disease.

194. Parkinson's disease updates: Addressing the pathophysiology, risk factors, genetics, diagnosis, along with the medical and surgical treatment.
Abstract: After only Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most prevalent neurodegenerative disease. The incidence of this disease increases with age, especially for those above 70 years old. There are many risk factors that are well-established in the contribution to the development of PD, such as age, gender, ethnicity, rapid eye movement sleep disorder, high consumption of dairy products, traumatic brain injury, genetics, and pesticides/herbicides. Interestingly, smoking, consumption of caffeine, and physical activities are the protective factors of PD. A deficiency of dopamine in the substantia nigra of the brainstem is the main pathology. This, subsequently, alters the neurotransmitter, causing an imbalance between excitatory and inhibitory signals. In addition, genetics is also involved in the pathogenesis of the disease. As a result, patients exhibit characteristic motor symptoms such as tremors, stiffness, bradykinesia, and postural instability, along with non-motor symptoms, including dementia, urinary incontinence, sleeping disturbances, and orthostatic hypotension. PD may resemble other diseases; therefore, it is important to pay attention to the diagnosis criteria. Parkinson's disease dementia can share common features with AD; this can include behavioral as well as psychiatric symptoms, in addition to the pathology being protein aggregate accumulation in the brain. For PD management, the administration of pharmacological treatment depends on the motor symptoms experienced by the patients. Non-pharmacological treatment plays a role as adjuvant therapy, while surgical management is indicated in chronic cases. This paper aims to review the etiology, risk factors, protective factors, pathophysiology, signs and symptoms, associated conditions, and management of PD.

195. Rapamycin Responds to Alzheimer's Disease: A Potential Translational Therapy.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a sporadic or familial neurodegenerative disease of insidious onset with progressive cognitive decline. Although numerous studies have been conducted or are underway on AD, there are still no effective drugs to reverse the pathological features and clinical manifestations of AD. Rapamycin is a macrolide antibiotic produced by Streptomyces hygroscopicus. As a classical mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) inhibitor, rapamycin has been shown to be beneficial in a variety of AD mouse and cells models, both before the onset of disease symptoms and the early stage of disease. Although many basic studies have demonstrated the therapeutic effects of rapamycin in AD, many questions and controversies remain. This may be due to the variability of experimental models, different modes of administration, dose, timing, frequency, and the availability of drug-targeting vehicles. Rapamycin may delay the development of AD by reducing β-amyloid (Aβ) deposition, inhibiting tau protein hyperphosphorylation, maintaining brain function in APOE ε4 gene carriers, clearing chronic inflammation, and improving cognitive dysfunction. It is thus expected to be one of the candidates for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

196. Long-term social isolation stress exacerbates sex-specific neurodegeneration markers in a natural model of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Social interactions have a significant impact on health in humans and animal models. Social isolation initiates a cascade of stress-related physiological disorders and stands as a significant risk factor for a wide spectrum of morbidity and mortality. Indeed, social isolation stress (SIS) is indicative of cognitive decline and risk to neurodegenerative conditions, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study aimed to evaluate the impact of chronic, long-term SIS on the propensity to develop hallmarks of AD in young degus (Octodon degus), a long-lived animal model that mimics sporadic AD naturally. We examined inflammatory factors, bioenergetic status, reactive oxygen species (ROS), oxidative stress, antioxidants, abnormal proteins, tau protein, and amyloid-β (Aβ) levels in the hippocampus of female and male degus that were socially isolated from post-natal and post-weaning until adulthood. Additionally, we explored the effect of re-socialization following chronic isolation on these protein profiles. Our results showed that SIS promotes a pro-inflammatory scenario more severe in males, a response that was partially mitigated by a period of re-socialization. In addition, ATP levels, ROS, and markers of oxidative stress are severely affected in female degus, where a period of re-socialization fails to restore them as it does in males. In females, these effects might be linked to antioxidant enzymes like catalase, which experience a decline across all SIS treatments without recovery during re-socialization. Although in males, a previous enzyme in antioxidant pathway diminishes in all treatments, catalase rebounds during re-socialization. Notably, males have less mature neurons after chronic isolation, whereas phosphorylated tau and all detectable forms of Aβ increased in both sexes, persisting even post re-socialization. Collectively, these findings suggest that long-term SIS may render males more susceptible to inflammatory states, while females are predisposed to oxidative states. In both scenarios, the accumulation of tau and Aβ proteins increase the individual susceptibility to early-onset neurodegenerative conditions such as AD.

197. Editorial: Insights in Alzheimer's disease and related dementias: 2022.
Abstract: Abstract not available for PMID: 37810616

198. Influence of cerebral blood flow on volumetric loss related to Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: CBF measured with Arterial Spin Labeling (ASL) obtained by Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) may become an important biomarker by showing changes in early stages of AD, such as in the prodromal stage of Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI).

199. Helicobacter pylori infection contributes to the expression of Alzheimer's disease-associated risk factors and neuroinflammation.
Abstract: Over time, mounting evidence has demonstrated extra-gastric manifestations of Helicobacter pylori infection. As such, a number of studies demonstrated the potential contribution of H. pylori infection to the incidence and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Considering unanswered questions regarding the effect of H. pylori infection on brain activity, we sought to investigate the impact of H. pylori infection on the expression of AD-associated risk factors. We used two H. pylori clinical strains obtained from two patients with peptic ulcer and evaluated their influence on the expression level of AD-associated genes (APP, ApoE2, ApoE4, ABCA7, BIN1, Clu, CD33) and genes for inflammatory markers (TLR-4, IL-8, TNF-α) by RT-qPCR in human glioblastoma (U87MG) and astrocyte (1321N1) cell lines. The expression of inflammatory cytokines was further assessed by ELISA assay. The exposure of U97MG and 1321N1 cells to H. pylori strains resulted in a significant enhancement in the expression level of the risk allele ApoE4, while reducing the expression of the protective allele ApoE2. H. pylori infection remarkably increased the expression level of main AD-associated risk genes, and also pro-inflammatory cytokines. Furthermore, we noticed a substantial elevation in the mRNA expression level of transmembrane receptor TLR-4 following H. pylori infection. Our findings presented the potential for H. pylori to stimulate the expression of AD-associated risk genes and trigger neuroinflammation in the brain tissue. This, in principle, leads to the recommendation that AD patients should perhaps test for H. pylori infection and receive treatments upon positive detection.

200. Interprofessional education: a necessity in Alzheimer's dementia care-a pilot study.
Abstract: Interprofessional collaboration is seen as an indispensable prerequisite for high-quality health services and patient care, especially for complex diseases such as dementia. Thus, the current project aimed to extend interprofessional and competency-based education in the field of dementia care to the previously understudied therapy professions of nutrition, speech-language pathology, and physiotherapy.

201. Exploring the Potential of Antidiabetic Agents as Therapeutic Approaches for Alzheimer's and Parkinson's Diseases: A Comprehensive Review.
Abstract: Alzheimer's and Parkinson's are two prevalent neurodegenerative disorders with significant societal and healthcare burdens. The search for effective therapeutic approaches to combat these diseases has led to growing interest in exploring the potential of antidiabetic agents. This comprehensive review aims to provide a detailed overview of the current literature on using antidiabetic agents as therapeutic interventions for Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. We discuss the underlying pathological mechanisms of these neurodegenerative diseases, including protein misfolding, inflammation, oxidative stress, and mitochondrial dysfunction. We then delve into the potential mechanisms by which antidiabetic agents may exert neuroprotective effects, including regulation of glucose metabolism and insulin signaling, anti-inflammatory effects, modulation of oxidative stress, and improvement of mitochondrial function and bioenergetics. We highlight in vitro, animal, and clinical studies that support the potential benefits of antidiabetic agents in reducing disease pathology and improving clinical outcomes. However, we also acknowledge these agents' limitations, variability in treatment response, and potential side effects. Furthermore, we explore emerging therapeutic targets and novel approaches, such as glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) agonists, insulin sensitizer drugs, neuroinflammation-targeted therapies, and precision medicine approaches. The review concludes by emphasizing the need for further research, including large-scale clinical trials, to validate the efficacy and safety of antidiabetic agents in treating Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. The collaboration between researchers, clinicians, and pharmaceutical companies is essential in advancing the field and effectively treating patients affected by these debilitating neurodegenerative disorders.

202. Disease-driven domain generalization for neuroimaging-based assessment of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Development of deep learning models to assess the degree of cognitive impairment on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans has high translational significance. Performance of such models is often affected by potential variabilities stemming from independent protocols for data generation, imaging equipment, radiology artifacts, and demographic distributional shifts. Domain generalization (DG) frameworks have the potential to overcome these issues by learning signal from one or more source domains that can be transferable to unseen target domains. We developed an approach that leverages model interpretability as a means to improve generalizability of classification models across multiple cohorts. Using MRI scans and clinical diagnosis obtained from four independent cohorts (Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI, n = 1, 821), the Framingham Heart Study (FHS, n = 304), the Australian Imaging Biomarkers and Lifestyle Study of Ageing (AIBL, n = 661), and the National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center (NACC, n = 4, 647)), we trained a deep neural network that used model-identified regions of disease relevance to inform model training. We trained a classifier to distinguish persons with normal cognition (NC) from those with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) by aligning class-wise attention with a unified visual saliency prior computed offline per class over all training data. Our proposed method competes with state-of-the-art methods with improved correlation with postmortem histology, thus grounding our findings with gold standard evidence and paving a way towards validating DG frameworks.

203. Altered hierarchical gradients of intrinsic neural timescales in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a devastating neurodegenerative disease that affects millions of older adults in the US and worldwide. Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (rs-fMRI) has become a widely used neuroimaging tool to study neurophysiology in AD and its prodromal condition, mild cognitive impairment (MCI). The intrinsic neural timescale (INT), which can be estimated through the magnitude of the autocorrelation of intrinsic neural signals using rs-fMRI, is thought to quantify the duration that neural information is stored in a local cortical circuit. The heterogeneity of the timescales is considered to be a basis of the functional hierarchy in the brain. In addition, INT captures an aspect of circuit dynamics relevant to excitation/inhibition (E/I) balance, which is thought to be broadly relevant for cognitive functions. Here we examined its relevance to AD. We used rs-fMRI data of 904 individuals from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) database. The subjects were divided into 4 groups based on their baseline and end-visit clinical status, which were cognitively normal (CN), stable MCI, Converter, and AD groups. Linear mixed effect model and pairwise comparison were implemented to investigate the large-scale hierarchical organization and local differences. We observed high similarities between AD and Converter groups. Specifically, among the eight identified ROIs with distinct INT alterations in AD, three ROIs (inferior temporal, caudate, pallidum areas) exhibit stable and significant alteration in AD converter. In addition, distinct INT related pathological changes in stable MCI and AD/Converter were found. For AD and Converter groups, neural information is stored for a longer time in lower hierarchical order areas, while higher levels of hierarchy seem to be preferentially impaired in stable MCI leading to a less pronounced hierarchical gradient effect. These results inform that the INT holds great potential as an additional measure for AD prediction, a stable biomarker for clinical diagnosis and an important therapeutic target in AD.

204. Piezo1 agonist restores meningeal lymphatic vessels, drainage, and brain-CSF perfusion in craniosynostosis and aged mice.
Abstract: Skull development coincides with the onset of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) circulation, brain-CSF perfusion, and meningeal lymphangiogenesis, processes essential for brain waste clearance. How these processes are affected by craniofacial disorders such as craniosynostosis are poorly understood. We report that raised intracranial pressure and diminished CSF flow in craniosynostosis mouse models associates with pathological changes to meningeal lymphatic vessels that affect their sprouting, expansion, and long-term maintenance. We also show that craniosynostosis affects CSF circulatory pathways and perfusion into the brain. Further, craniosynostosis exacerbates amyloid pathology and plaque buildup in Twist1 +/- :5xFAD transgenic Alzheimer's disease models. Treating craniosynostosis mice with Yoda1, a small molecule agonist for Piezo1, reduces intracranial pressure and improves CSF flow, in addition to restoring meningeal lymphangiogenesis, drainage to the deep cervical lymph nodes, and brain-CSF perfusion. Leveraging these findings, we show Yoda1 treatments in aged mice with reduced CSF flow and turnover improve lymphatic networks, drainage, and brain-CSF perfusion. Our results suggest CSF provides mechanical force to facilitate meningeal lymphatic growth and maintenance. Additionally, applying Yoda1 agonist in conditions with raised intracranial pressure and/or diminished CSF flow, as seen in craniosynostosis or with ageing, is a possible therapeutic option to help restore meningeal lymphatic networks and brain-CSF perfusion.

205. The Healthy Brain Initiative (HBI): A prospective cohort study protocol.
Abstract: The Health Brain Initiative (HBI), established by University of Miami's Comprehensive Center for Brain Health (CCBH), follows racially/ethnically diverse older adults without dementia living in South Florida. With dementia prevention and brain health promotion as an overarching goal, HBI will advance scientific knowledge by developing novel assessments and non-invasive biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD), examining additive effects of sociodemographic, lifestyle, neurological and biobehavioral measures, and employing innovative, methodologically advanced modeling methods to characterize ADRD risk and resilience factors and transition of brain aging.

206. Disease-specific selective vulnerability and neuroimmune pathways in dementia revealed by single cell genomics.
Abstract: The development of successful therapeutics for dementias requires an understanding of their shared and distinct molecular features in the human brain. We performed single-nuclear RNAseq and ATACseq in Alzheimer disease (AD), Frontotemporal degeneration (FTD), and Progressive Supranuclear Palsy (PSP), analyzing 40 participants, yielding over 1.4M cells from three brain regions ranging in vulnerability and pathological burden. We identify 35 shared disease-associated cell types and 14 that are disease-specific, replicating those previously identified in AD. Disease - specific cell states represent molecular features of disease-specific glial-immune mechanisms and neuronal vulnerability in each disorder, layer 4/5 intra-telencephalic neurons in AD, layer 2/3 intra-telencephalic neurons in FTD, and layer 5/6 near-projection neurons in PSP. We infer intrinsic disease-associated gene regulatory networks, which we empirically validate by chromatin footprinting. We find that causal genetic risk acts in specific neuronal and glial cells that differ across disorders, primarily non-neuronal cells in AD and specific neuronal subtypes in FTD and PSP. These data illustrate the heterogeneous spectrum of glial and neuronal composition and gene expression alterations in different dementias and identify new therapeutic targets by revealing shared and disease-specific cell states.

207. Interictal epileptiform discharges in Alzheimer's disease: prevalence, relevance, and controversies.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common type of dementia and remains an incurable, progressive disease with limited disease-modifying interventions available. In patients with AD, interictal epileptiform discharges (IEDs) have been identified in up to 54% of combined cohorts of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or mild dementia and are a marker of a more aggressive disease course. Studies assessing the role of IEDs in AD are limited by the lack of standardization in the definition of IEDs or the different neurophysiologic techniques used to capture them. IEDs are an appealing treatment target given the availability of EEG and anti-seizure medications. There remains uncertainty regarding when to treat IEDs, the optimal drug and dose for treatment, and the impact of treatment on disease course. This review covers the state of knowledge of the field of IEDs in AD, and the steps needed to move the field forward.

208. A five-year observational prospective mono-center study of the efficacy of alemtuzumab in a real-world cohort of patients with multiple sclerosis.
Abstract: Alemtuzumab (ALZ) is a pulsed immune reconstitution therapy for multiple sclerosis (MS).

209. Mosaic loss of the Y chromosome in human neurodegenerative and oncological diseases.
Abstract: The development of new biomarkers for prediction and early detection of human diseases, as well as for monitoring the response to therapy is one of the most relevant areas of modern human genetics and genomics. Until recently, it was believed that the function of human Y chromosome genes was limited to determining sex and controlling spermatogenesis. Thanks to occurance of large databases of the genome-wide association study (GWAS), there has been a transition to the use of large samples for analyzing genetic changes in both normal and pathological conditions. This has made it possible to assess the association of mosaic aneuploidy of the Y chromosome in somatic cells with a shorter lifespan in men compared to women. Based on data from the UK Biobank, an association was found between mosaic loss of the Y chromosome (mLOY) in peripheral blood leukocytes and the age of men over 70, as well as a number of oncological, cardiac, metabolic, neurodegenerative, and psychiatric diseases. As a result, mLOY in peripheral blood cells has been considered a potential marker of biological age in men and as a marker of certain age-related diseases. Currently, numerous associations have been identified between mLOY and genes based on GWAS and transcriptomes in affected tissues. However, the exact cause of mLOY and the impact and consequences of this phenomenon at the whole organism level have not been established. In particular, it is unclear whether aneuploidy of the Y chromosome in blood cells may affect the development of pathologies that manifest in other organs, such as the brain in Alzheimer's disease, or whether it is a neutral biomarker of general genomic instability. This review examines the main pathologies and genetic factors associated with mLOY, as well as the hypotheses regarding their interplay. Special attention is given to recent studies on mLOY in brain cells in Alzheimer's disease.

210. The Effects of Ninjinyoeito on Impaired Spatial Memory and Prefrontal Cortical Synaptic Plasticity through α-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-4-isoxazole Propionic Acid Receptor Subunit in a Rat Model with Cerebral Ischemia and β-Amyloid Injection.
Abstract: Ninjinyoeito (NYT), a traditional Japanese medicine, is effective for improving physical strength and treating fatigue and anorexia. Recently, a clinical report revealed that NYT ameliorates cognitive dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, although the mechanisms remain unclear. AD is a neurodegenerative disorder accompanied by a progressive deficit in memory. Current therapeutic agents are largely ineffective in treating cognitive dysfunction in AD patients. In this study, we investigated the effects of NYT on spatial memory impairment in a rat model of dementia. Rats were prepared with transient cerebral ischemia and intraventricular injection of β-amyloid1-42 for 7 days (CI + Aβ). NYT was orally administered for 7 days after cerebral ischemia. We evaluated spatial memory using the Morris water maze and investigated the expression of α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-4-isoxazole propionic acid receptor subunits, the phosphorylation level of glutamate receptor A (GluA)1 at serine sites S831 and S845, and the Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex of CI + Aβ rats. In the CI + Aβ rats, NYT treatment shortened the extended time to reach the platform. However, NYT did not restore the decrease in the hippocampal GluA1, GluA2, or CaMKII expression but increased prefrontal cortical phosphorylation levels of S845-GluA1 and CaMKII. Therefore, NYT may alleviate spatial memory impairment by promoting glutamatergic transmission involved in the phosphorylation of S845-GluA1 and CaMKII in the prefrontal cortex of CI + Aβ rats. Our results suggest that NYT is a valuable treatment for AD patients.

211. Informing Disclosure: Efficacy of a Brief Educational Intervention on Research Participants' Knowledge about Alzheimer's Disease Biomarkers.
Abstract: Recommendations for communicating Alzheimer's disease (AD) biomarkers include pre-disclosure participant education and counseling, to allow individuals to make an informed decision. In a cohort of largely non-Hispanic White, cognitively unimpaired older adults from the Wisconsin Registry for Alzheimer's Prevention, we conducted a structured amyloid PET disclosure process that included knowledge assessment and education. Baseline participant knowledge about AD biomarkers and research was high, but information needs existed around dementia causes, early AD symptoms, genetic information, and psychosocial consequences of disclosure. Knowledge scores increased after education, highlighting the potential of brief educational interventions to improve informed decision-making about biomarker disclosure.

212. Precision Medicine Approach to Alzheimer's Disease: Rationale and Implications.
Abstract: The neurodegenerative disease field has enjoyed extremely limited success in the development of effective therapeutics. One potential reason is the lack of disease models that yield accurate predictions and optimal therapeutic targets. Standard clinical trials have pre-determined a single treatment modality, which may be unrelated to the primary drivers of neurodegeneration. Recent proof-of-concept clinical trials using a precision medicine approach suggest a new model of Alzheimer's disease (AD) as a chronic innate encephalitis that creates a network insufficiency. Identifying and addressing the multiple potential contributors to cognitive decline for each patient may represent a more effective strategy. Here we review the rationale for a precision medicine approach in prevention and treatment of cognitive decline associated with AD. Results and implications from recent proof-of-concept clinical trials are presented. Randomized controlled trials, with much larger patient numbers, are likely to be significant to establishing precision medicine protocols as a standard of care for prevention and treatment of cognitive decline. Furthermore, combining this approach with the pharmaceutical approach offers the potential for enhanced outcomes. However, incorporating precision medicine approaches into everyday evaluation and care, as well as future clinical trials, would require fundamental changes in trial design, IRB considerations, funding considerations, laboratory evaluation, personalized treatment plans, treatment teams, and ultimately in reimbursement guidelines. Nonetheless, precision medicine approaches to AD, based on a novel model of AD pathophysiology, offer promise that has not been realized to date with monotherapeutic approaches.

213. Development of a Cognitive Composite for Preclinical Alzheimer's Disease in Korean Older Adults.
Abstract: As tracking subtle cognitive declines in the preclinical stage of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is difficult with traditional individual outcome measures, need for cognitive composite for preclinical AD is widely recognized.

214. Applications of Nanoparticles in Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: With the rapid aging of the global population, the prevalence of neurodegenerative diseases has become a significant concern, with Alzheimer's disease (AD) being the most common. However, the clinical trials of many drugs targeting AD have failed due to the challenges posed by the blood-brain barrier (BBB), which makes intracerebral administration of drugs difficult. However, nanoparticles (NPs) may aid in the delivery of such drugs. NPs are materials with sizes between 1-100 nm that offer several advantages, such as improving biocompatibility, prolonging half-life, transporting large molecules, crossing the BBB to deliver to the central nervous system, and exhibiting good targeting ability. In addition to drug delivery, NPs also have excellent diagnostic potential, and multifunctional NPs can integrate the advantages of diagnosis, targeting, and treatment. This mini-review article provides an overview of NPs, including the composition of the carrier, strategies for crossing the BBB, and different targets of AD pathology, with the aim of providing guidance for the development prospects of NPs.

215. H - 11 Bilingualism as a Protective Factor Associated with the Delayed Onset of the Clinical Manifestation of Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: This systematic review aims to investigate the relationship between bilingualism and Alzheimer's disease (ad) among individuals by synthesizing available evidence on the age at ad diagnosis, time of clinical ad manifestation, and potential protective effects of bilingualism on ad.

216. Current Pharmaceutical Research on the Significant Pharmacophore Mannich bases in Drug Design.
Abstract: A multitude of distinct Mannich bases have been synthesized and evaluated as potential therapeutics for a wide variety of diseases and medical conditions, either in the form of prodrugs or as molecules that trigger a biological response from specific targets. The Mannich reaction has been utilized to enhance the biological activity of numerous compounds, resulting in notable progress in various areas such as anticonvulsant, antimalarial, anticancer, anti-inflammatory, antiproliferative, antibacterial, antimicrobial, antitubercular, antiprotozoal, topoisomerases I and II inhibition, α-glucosidase inhibition, carbonic anhydrase inhibition, as well as research related to anti-Alzheimer's disease and anti-Parkinson's disease. Bioactive semisynthetic Mannich bases derived from natural compounds such as chalcone, curcumin, and thymol have also been identified. Pharmaceutical compounds characterized by low solubility may encounter challenges related to their oral bioavailability, half-life, distribution within tissues, rapid metabolism, toxicity, and various other relevant variables. Mannich bases have the ability to undergo protonation under physiological circumstances, facilitating interactions between ligands and receptors, and enhancing their solubility in water. The experimental findings indicate that the solubility of Mannich base prodrugs is higher compared to that of the parent compound. The use of the multicomponent Mannich reaction has been established as a valuable synthetic methodology for the construction of multifunctional compounds through the application of diverse synthetic strategies under varying reaction conditions. The continuous investigation of synthetic techniques for Mannich reactions involves several approaches, such as employing protocols in aquatic environments, utilizing catalysts that are both biodegradable and reusable, exploring the use of ionic liquids, investigating solvent-free and/or catalyst-free media, and exploring reaction conditions involving microwave and ultrasound irradiation. Consequently, the Mannich reaction has emerged as a powerful technique in the field of medicinal chemistry. It is utilized for the creation of new chemical compounds that possess diverse and attractive biologic features. Additionally, this reaction is employed to alter the physicochemical properties of a potential drug candidate, thereby influencing its bioavailability, efficacy, and pharmacological activity. Due to their favorable bioactivities and synthesis techniques, Mannich bases remain a subject of ongoing attention in the field of medical and pharmaceutical chemistry.

217. Gut Microbiome and Circadian Interactions with Platelets Across Human Diseases, including Alzheimer's Disease, Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis, and Cancer.
Abstract: Platelets have traditionally been investigated for their role in clot formation in the course of cardiovascular diseases and strokes. However, recent work indicates platelets to be an integral aspect of wider systemic processes, with relevance to the pathophysiology of a host of diverse medical conditions, including neurodegenerative disorders and cancer. This article reviews platelet function and interactions with the gut microbiome and circadian systems, highlighting the role of the platelet mitochondrial melatonergic pathway in determining platelet activation, fluxes and plasticity. This provides a number of novel conceptualizations of platelet function and mode of interaction with other cell types, including the pathoetiology and pathophysiology of diverse medical conditions, such as cancer, Alzheimer's disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. It is proposed that a platelet-gut axis allows platelets to contribute to many of the pathophysiological processes linked to gut dysbiosis and gut permeability. This is at least partly via platelet sphingosine- 1-phosphate release, which regulates enteric glial cells and lymphocyte chemotaxis, indicating an etiological role for platelets in a wide array of medical conditions linked to alterations in the gut microbiome. Platelets are also an important regulator of the various microenvironments that underpin most human medical conditions, including the tumor microenvironment, neurodegenerative diseases, and autoimmune disorders. Platelet serotonin release regulates the availability of the mitochondrial melatonergic pathway systemically, thereby being an important determinant of the dynamic metabolic interactions occurring across cell types that underpin the pathoetiology of many medical conditions. In addition, a number of novel and diverse future research directions and treatment implications are proposed.

218. B - 37 Cognitive Aging in Rural Communities: Preliminary Characterization of Memory in a Community Cohort from Southern Nevada.
Abstract: Rural-dwelling older adults face unique health challenges that may increase risk for Alzheimer's disease and related dementias; however, they are severely underrepresented in aging research. Here we present an initial characterization of memory functioning in a prospectively followed rural community cohort, with comparisons to an urban cohort from the same region.

219. A - 178 Development and Psychometric Properties of an Abbreviated Version of the Identi-Fi: a Test of Visual Organization and Recognition.
Abstract: There is a growing demand for efficient neuropsychological screening instruments to better triage referrals for more specialized evaluations. In particular, visuospatial problems tend to appear fairly early in Alzheimer's dementia. The Identi-Fi: A Test of Visual Organization and Recognition is a reliable and valid measure of visual organization ability. Administration and scoring take 15 minutes, which precludes its use as a screening instrument. The current study aimed to create a brief version of the test for use in a standard screening battery.

220. A - 180 Anosognosia across the Spectrum of Alzheimer's Pathology and Validation of a New Measure.
Abstract: Two studies were performed to validate a brief, new method for assessing informant-patient discrepancies to quantify cognitive insight, and to compare it to an empirically supported model - the Cognitive Awareness Model (CAM).

221. MiR-669b-5p inhibits the Alzheimer's disease development via regulation of CHEK2 in Neuro2a APPSwe/Δ9 cells.
Abstract: DNA damage of neurons is accumulated in Alzheimer's disease (AD). DNA damage-activated Checkpoint kinase 2 (CHEK2) is evaluated in Aβ-treated Neuro2a APPSwe/Δ9 cells, and the miR-669b-5p was specifically down-regulated. However, the underlying molecular mechanism between CHEK2 and miR-669b-5p in Neuro2a APPSwe/Δ9 cells remains unclear. This research discovers that in A-treated Neuro2a APPSwe/Δ9 cells, CHEK2 expression and miR-669b-5p expression were inversely correlated. In addition, miR-669b-5p mimics increased cell survival and proliferation in Neuro2a APPSwe/Δ9 cells while decreasing the production of inflammatory cytokines and cell death. Furthermore, it is observed that CHEK2 was a miR-669b-5p downstream target gene and that CHEK2 restored the miR-669b-5p's functions. According to this research, miR-669b-5p is a potential therapy for Alzheimer's patients since it slows the advancement of the disease.

222. A - 62 Caregiver Relationship Type Significantly Moderates Association among NPI-Q Symptoms: a Moderated Network Analysis.
Abstract: We investigated the influence of caregiver type (CT; ex. spouse, child, etc.) on the association among neuropsychiatric symptoms using the caregiver-endorsed Neuropsychiatric Inventory Questionnaire (NPI-Q) and a sample from the National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center database.

223. A - 54 Interdisciplinary Assessment in the Differential Diagnosis of the Phenocopy Syndrome of Behavioral Variant Frontotemporal Dementia: a Case Study.
Abstract: Phenocopy syndrome of behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (phFTD) is a clinical syndrome in which the neuropsychiatric criteria of behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) are fulfilled without demonstration of classic bvFTD neuroimaging abnormalities or clinical progression. We present a case of an individual with atypical bvFTD that was initially characterized as phFTD and discuss clinical considerations for complicated differential diagnosis in a phenocopy syndrome that is still not fully understood.

224. A - 65 Neuropsychological Sequela of Late-Onset Epilepsy in Older Adults: a Case Study.
Abstract: Late-onset epilepsy is increasingly recognized as playing a role in cognitive decline during aging. Late-onset epilepsy and Alzheimer's disease (ad) appear to share pathological links mediated by vascular changes and tau pathology (Sen et al., 2020). Current literature has established a bi-directional association between ad and epilepsy with each being a risk factor of the other (Zhang et al., 2022). The present case illustrates the complexity of differential diagnosis in older adults presenting with progressive memory decline and late-onset epilepsy.

225. A - 42 Neuropsychological Improvement in Amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment Following Noninvasive Transcranial Electrical Stimulation: a Case Report.
Abstract: Amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment (aMCI) is often a prodromal stage for Alzheimer's disease, and the few treatments available have limited efficacy in lessening the neuropsychological deficits. Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) is a noninvasive electrical stimulation method with therapeutic potential found in aMCI, but high-definition tDCS (HD-tDCS) is a recent advancement allowing for improved targeting in stimulation and possibly prolonged treatment effects. We present a case report that investigates HD-tDCS-induced neuropsychological changes in aMCI.

226. A - 34 A Suspected Case of Early-Onset Frontal Variant of Alzheimer's Disease in a 64-Year-Old Male.
Abstract: Early-onset frontal variant of Alzheimer's disease (fvAD) is characterized by apathy, disinhibition, and executive dysfunction. As such, fvAD is often difficult to clinically distinguish from behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD). However, research suggests that a differentiating feature among the two conditions is that fvAD typically presents with more pronounced memory impairment. Therefore, neuropsychological testing in the context of a comprehensive multidisciplinary assessment can be a valuable tool to aid with differential diagnosis.

227. A - 26 Behavioral Variant Alzheimer's Disease: Distinctly Different from Alzheimer's Disease and Behavioral Variant Frontotemporal Disease.
Abstract: Behavioral variant Alzheimer's disease (bvAD) is a variant of Alzheimer's disease (ad) and is distinctly different from behavioral variant frontotemporal disease (bvFTD). However, bvAD has many overlapping symptoms with ad (i.e., atrophy in temporal, episodic memory deficits) and bvFTD (i.e., behavioral changes, early onset, caregiver burden) that can cause diagnostic confusion.

228. A - 22 Preliminary Outcomes on Depression Symptoms in a Randomized Controlled Trial of High-Definition Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation in Alzheimer's Dementia.
Abstract: New treatments to manage emotional and cognitive symptoms of Alzheimer's Dementia (ad) are needed. High-definition transcranial direct current stimulation (HD-tDCS) is a non-invasive neuromodulation technology with potential as a new treatment for improving neuropsychiatric symptoms. The dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC) is a region found to play an important role in emotional processes and is vulnerable to degeneration in ad. As such, we conducted a pilot study investigating the effect of HD-tDCS applied over the dACC on depression symptoms in ad patients.

229. A - 28 Serial Evaluations of an Older Adult with Epilepsy and Incidental Findings of Early-Onset Alzheimer's Disease: a Case Study.
Abstract: Patients with Temporal Lobe Epilepsy (TLE) and Alzheimer's Disease (ad) demonstrate increased β-amyloid and tau deposition, relative to patients with either TLE or ad. Presentation of ad may be atypical and more rapid in patients with both disorders. We present four serial neuropsychological evaluations (NPE) of a 68-year-old, right-handed woman with history of epilepsy (which became treatment refractory), neurosurgical resection, and incidental neuropathological findings of early-onset ad.

230. A - 23 Neuropsychological Assessments Are Highly Predictive of Β-Amyloid Positive Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (ad) is the most common cause of dementia, but it is often difficult to accurately diagnose. The current gold standard is β-amyloid positivity on a positron emission tomography (PET) scan. However, these scans are not covered by insurance and are cost prohibitive, making them infeasible for many patients. The aim of this study was to quantitatively assess the accuracy of a neuropsychological battery in distinguishing people with biomarker-confirmed ad versus people who are amyloid-negative.

231. A - 27 Early-Onset Alzheimer's Disease: Indications of Psychosis Severity and Disease Progression.
Abstract: Early-onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD) comprises about 5% of ad cases and is associated with delays in diagnosis and aggressive course. Psychotic symptoms are frequent in ad and often include delusions of infidelity and hallucinations. When present, ad with psychosis is accompanied by elevated levels of depression and greater functional impairment. This case expands upon the existing literature on EOAD through the timeline of a complex psychosis presentation accompanied by rapid cognitive decline.

232. A - 40 Assessment of Dementia with Lewy Bodies in a Patient with both Characteristic and Atypical Features.
Abstract: Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) is the second most common neurodegenerative dementia after Alzheimer disease (ad). Its heterogeneous presentation and overlapping features with other dementias result in frequent misdiagnosis, which can delay optimal management. The present case illustrates complex symptomology, comprehensive assessment, and diagnostic challenges in a patient with DLB.

233. A - 36 Neuroprotective and Resilience Factors in an Individual with Positive ad Biomarkers.
Abstract: There is conflicting research on risk indicators relating to the diagnosis of early-onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD). We assessed an individual with numerous factors that are associated with EOAD including the presence of two APOE e4 alleles, family history of EOAD, and positive biomarkers (i.e., Amyloid PET Scan; CSF). Longitudinal neuropsychological data reflect minimal cognitive decline through age 73, suggesting substantial mediating effects of cognitive reserve and neuroprotective measures: aerobic exercise, cognitive stimulation, and psychological health.

234. A - 32 Impact of Demographic Factors in African American (AA) Older Adults in Relation to Confrontational Naming Deficits on an Object Naming Task.
Abstract: Dysnomia, or complaints of word-finding difficulties for names, places, and objects is common in patients with Alzheimer's Disease (ad). This common characteristic makes confrontational naming a fundamental component of neuropsychological assessment in aging populations. The Multilingual Naming Test (MINT) detects naming impairments at various stages of cognitive decline. However, our understanding of how performance varies based on education, is sparse. Authors evaluated the sensitivity of the MINT in predicting naming impairments in AA in relation to education levels.

235. A - 48 Neuropsychiatric Symptom Severity Predicts Rate of Executive Function Decline.
Abstract: Neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) are considered diagnostic and prognostic indicators of dementia and are attributable to neurodegenerative processes. NPS are distressing for patients and caregivers and are associated with accelerated functional decline, hospitalization, and institutionalization. Evaluation of NPS effects on disease course may reduce patient and caregiver distress and support development of personalized treatments. We examined whether baseline NPS predicted the rate of executive function (EF) decline among older adults with cognitive impairment.

236. A - 20 Do Alzheimer's Disease Biomarkers Impact Normal Pressure Hydrocephalus Lumbar Drain Trial Outcomes.
Abstract: Distinguishing normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) from Alzheimer's disease (ad) would aid patient selection for lumbar drain trials (LDT). Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) ad biomarkers are altered in NPH, limiting interpretation. This study examines the utility of CSF ad biomarkers in predicting gait and cognitive outcomes in patients undergoing LDT.

237. A - 17 Preliminary Neuropsychological Outcomes in a Randomized Controlled Trial of High-Definition Transcranial Direct Current Stimulation in Alzheimer's Clinical Syndrome.
Abstract: The Alzheimer's Clinical Syndrome (ACS) is marked by global cognitive decline, and neural circuit dysfunction involving the dorsal anterior cingulate cortex (dACC) has been associated with some of the episodic memory and non-memory deficits in ACS. High-definition transcranial direct current stimulation (HD-tDCS) is a promising noninvasive treatment to lessen cognitive deficits in ACS, and this preliminary double-blinded trial examined whether HD-tDCS targeting the dACC could improve cognitive performance in ACS.

238. A - 19 Cognitive Test Score Dispersion VS. Traditional Memory Composite Scores: Predicting Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) & Dementia among Cognitively Impaired, Not MCI Patients.
Abstract: To compare mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and dementia conversion rates between global neuropsychological dispersion (GD) and traditional memory neuropsychological composite score (MComp) in participants with baseline evidence of cognitive decline but no diagnosis of MCI or dementia.

239. A - 12 Traumatic Brain Injury Characteristics Are Not Related to Neurocognitive Decline in Older Adults: a Nationwide Longitudinal Cohort Study.
Abstract: Evaluate if traumatic brain injury (TBI) characteristics, age of injury, or recency of injury is related to course of neurocognitive decline in aging and/or increases conversion rates to mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or all-cause dementia later in life.

240. A - 18 Predicting Incident Amnestic Mild Cognitive Impairment and Alzheimer's Disease with a Computerized Neuropsychological Assessment Device: Comparative Clinical Utility.
Abstract: Computerized neuropsychological assessment devices (CNADs) offer improved accessibility to screen for neurodegeneration, although their clinical utility is yet to be established. We evaluated the efficacy of a CNAD to predict incident amnestic mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease (aMCI/ad) compared to a conventional paper-and-pencil screening tool and PET amyloid beta (AB).

241. Multitargeted inhibition of key enzymes associated with diabetes and Alzheimer's disease by 1,3,4-oxadiazole derivatives: Synthesis, in vitro screening, and computational studies.
Abstract: A library of 22 derivatives of 1,3,4-oxadiazole-2-thiol was synthesized, structurally characterized, and assessed for its potential to inhibit α-amylase, α-glucosidase, acetylcholinesterase (AChE), butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), and antioxidant activities. Most of the tested compounds demonstrated good to moderate inhibition potential; however, their activity was lower than that of the standard acarbose. Significantly, compound 3f exhibited the highest inhibition potential against α-glucosidase and α-amylase enzymes, with IC50 values of 18.52 ± 0.09 and 20.25 ± 1.05 µM, respectively, in comparison to the standard acarbose (12.29 ± 0.26; 15.98 ± 0.14 µM). Compounds also demonstrated varying degrees of inhibitory potential against AChE (IC50  = 9.25 ± 0.19 to 36.15 ± 0.12 µM) and BChE (IC50  = 10.06 ± 0.43 to 35.13 ± 0.12 µM) enzymes compared to the standard donepezil (IC50  = 2.01 ± 0.12; 3.12 ± 0.06 µM), as well as DPPH (IC50  = 20.98 ± 0.06 to 52.83 ± 0.12 µM) and ABTS radical scavenging activities (IC50  = 22.29 ± 0.18 to 47.98 ± 0.03 µM) in comparison to the standard ascorbic acid (IC50  = 18.12 ± 0.15; 19.19 ± 0.72). The kinetic investigations have demonstrated that the compounds exhibit competitive-type inhibition for α-amylase, noncompetitive-type inhibition for α-glucosidase and AChE, and mixed-type inhibition for BChE. Additionally, a molecular docking study was performed on all synthetic oxadiazoles to explore the interaction details of these compounds with the active sites of the enzymes.

242. Association between low vitamin D status, serotonin and clinico-bio-behavioral parameters in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Studies suggest a role of vitamin D in the progression and symptomatology of Alzheimer's disease (AD), with few in vitro studies pointing to effects on serotonergic and amyloidogenic turnover. However, limited data exist in AD patients and on the potential association with cognition, and behavioral and psychological signs and symptoms of dementia (BPSD). In this retrospective cross-sectional study, we, therefore, explored potential correlations of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 (25(OH)D3) concentrations, indicative of vitamin D status, with cognitive/BPSD scorings, serum serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarker levels.

243. Circular-SWAT for deep learning based diagnostic classification of Alzheimer's disease: application to metabolome data.
Abstract: Deep learning has shown potential in various scientific domains but faces challenges when applied to complex, high-dimensional multi-omics data. Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that lacks targeted therapeutic options. This study introduces the Circular-Sliding Window Association Test (c-SWAT) to improve the classification accuracy in predicting AD using serum-based metabolomics data, specifically lipidomics.

244. Widespread selenium deficiency in the brain of cases with Huntington's disease presents a new potential therapeutic target.
Abstract: Huntington or Huntington's disease (HD) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease characterised by both progressive motor and cognitive dysfunction; its pathogenic mechanisms remain poorly understood and no treatment can currently slow, stop, or reverse its progression. There is some evidence of metallomic dysfunction in limited regions of the HD brain; we hypothesised that these alterations are more widespread than the current literature suggests and may contribute to pathogenesis in HD.

245. 27-Hydroxycholesterol impairs learning and memory ability via decreasing brain glucose uptake mediated by the gut microbiota.
Abstract: Brain glucose hypometabolism is a significant manifestation of Alzheimer's disease (AD). 27-hydroxycholesterol (27-OHC) and the gut microbiota have been recognized as factors possibly influencing the pathogenesis of AD. This study aimed to investigate the link between 27-OHC, the gut microbiota, and brain glucose uptake in AD. Here, 6-month-old male C57BL/6 J mice were treated with sterile water or antibiotic cocktails, with or without 27-OHC and/or 27-OHC synthetic enzyme CYP27A1 inhibitor anastrozole (ANS). The gut microbiota, brain glucose uptake levels, and memory ability were measured. We observed that 27-OHC altered microbiota composition, damaged brain tissue structures, decreased the 2-deoxy-2-[18 F] fluorodeoxyglucose (18F-FDG) uptake value, downregulated the gene expression of glucose transporter type 4 (GLUT4), reduced the colocalization of GLUT1/glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in the hippocampus, and impaired spatial memory. ANS reversed the effects of 27-OHC. The antibiotic-treated mice did not exhibit similar results after 27-OHC treatment. This study reveals a potential molecular mechanism wherein 27-OHC-induced memory impairment might be linked to reduced brain glucose uptake, mediated by the gut microbiota.

246. Magnetically Manipulated Optoelectronic Hybrid Microrobots for Optically Targeted Non-Genetic Neuromodulation.
Abstract: Optically controlled neuromodulation is a promising approach for basic research of neural circuits and the clinical treatment of neurological diseases. However, developing a non-invasive and well-controllable system to deliver accurate and effective neural stimulation is challenging. Micro/nanorobots have shown great potential in various biomedical applications because of their precise controllability. Here, we present a magnetically manipulated optoelectronic hybrid microrobot (MOHR) for optically targeted non-genetic neuromodulation. By integrating the magnetic component into the metal-insulator-semiconductor (MIS) junction design, the MOHR had excellent magnetic controllability and optoelectronic properties. The MOHR displayed a variety of magnetic manipulation modes that enabled precise and efficient navigation in different biofluids. Furthermore, the MOHR could achieve precision neuromodulation at the single-cell level because of its accurate targeting ability. This neuromodulation was achieved by the MOHR's photoelectric response to visible light irradiation, which enhanced the excitability of the targeted cells. Finally, we showed that the well-controllable MOHRs effectively restored neuronal activity in neurons damaged by β-amyloid, a pathogenic agent of Alzheimer's disease. By coupling precise controllability with efficient optoelectronic properties, the hybrid microrobot system is a promising strategy for targeted on-demand optical neuromodulation. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

247. Development and validation of a nomogram model for prediction of stroke-associated pneumonia associated with intracerebral hemorrhage.
Abstract: We aimed to establish risk factors for stroke-associated pneumonia (SAP) following intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) and develop an efficient and convenient model to predict SAP in patients with ICH.

248. Ginsenoside Rg2 alleviates neurovascular damage in 3xTg-AD mice with Alzheimer's disease through the MAPK-ERK pathway.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia, and ginsenoside Rg2 (Rg2) is proven to inhibit AD's progression. This study investigates the potential benefits of Rg2 treatment on 3xTg-AD mice. Following 6 weeks of gavage treatment, Rg2-treated 3xTg-AD mice exhibited improved spatial recognition memory behaviors, regional cerebral blood flow, and histopathological injury of the hippocampus, which were observed through a Y-maze test, laser Doppler flowmetry, and hematoxylin-eosin staining. Additionally, Rg2 treatment caused a decrease in the levels of amyloid beta 25-35, TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6, as measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, as well as a reduction in mRNA levels of IL-1β and IL-6 in 3xTg-AD mouse brains using quantitative real-time PCR. In particular, NeuN and CD31 levels were inhibited and GFAP level was elevated in 3xTg-AD mice that were observed through immunofluorescence, and these levels were all antagonized by Rg2, suggesting the effects of Rg2 on neurovascular damage, astrocyte activation, and neuronal loss. Furthermore, Western blot and qRT-PCR assays showed that Rg2 blocked the expression of ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 in 3xTg-AD mice. By Western blot, the ratios of p-ERK/ERK and p-MAPK/MAPK in 3xTg-AD mice were upregulated by Rg2 treatment, suggesting the neuroprotective effects of Rg2 may be related to the MAPK-ERK pathway. In summary, this study demonstrated the potential of Rg2 to improve AD and provided a scientific basis for research on the biological mechanism of AD and the development of Rg2.

249. Sleep diplomacy alone will widen sleep disparities - Authors' reply.
Abstract: Abstract not available for PMID: 37804844

250. Presenilin-1, mutated in familial Alzheimer's disease, maintains genome stability via a γ-secretase dependent way.
Abstract: Mutations in Presenilin-1 (PS1) account for over 80 % mutations linked to familial Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the mechanisms of action of PS1 mutations in causing familial AD are not fully understood, limiting opportunities to develop targeted disease-modifying therapies for individuals carrying PS1 mutation. To gain more comprehensive insights into the impact of PS1 mutations on genome stability, we knocked down PS1 in SH-SY5Y, HMC3 and A549 cells. This revealed that PS1 knockdown (KD) dramatically induces genome instability (GIN) in all cell types, as indicated by the increased incidence of micronuclei, nucleoplasmic bridges and/or nuclear buds. Although amyloid β (Aβ) was able to induce GIN, PS1-KD was associated with decreased expression of Aβ in SH-SY5Y cells, suggesting Aβ is not the primary cause of GIN in PS1-KD cells. In contrast, inhibiting the PS1 γ-secretase activity by DAPT recapitulated GIN phenotype as seen in PS1-KD cells, indicating that the induction of GIN following PS1 KD can be attributed to the loss of γ-secretase activity. PS1 KD or γ-secretase inhibition markedly sensitizes SH-SY5Y to the genotoxicity of mitomycin C. Interestingly, overexpression of the wildtype PS1 dramatically increased GIN in SH-SY5Y. Collectively, our study demonstrates the potential of PS1 and its γ-secretase activity in maintaining genome stability, highlighting a novel potential link between PS1 loss-of-function or gain-of-function mutations and familial AD through GIN. Several mechanisms by which GIN induced by PS1 dys-expression may contribute to AD are discussed.

251. Synthesizing images of tau pathology from cross-modal neuroimaging using deep learning.
Abstract: Given the prevalence of dementia and the development of pathology-specific disease modifying therapies, high-value biomarker strategies to inform medical decision making are critical. In-vivo tau positron emission tomography (PET) is an ideal target as a biomarker for Alzheimer's disease diagnosis and treatment outcome measure. However, tau PET is not currently widely accessible to patients compared to other neuroimaging methods. In this study, we present a convolutional neural network (CNN) model that impute tau PET images from more widely-available cross-modality imaging inputs. Participants (n=1,192) with brain T1-weighted MRI (T1w), fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET, amyloid PET, and tau PET were included. We found that a CNN model can impute tau PET images with high accuracy, the highest being for the FDG-based model followed by amyloid PET and T1w. In testing implications of AI-imputed tau PET, only the FDG-based model showed a significant improvement of performance in classifying tau positivity and diagnostic groups compared to the original input data, suggesting that application of the model could enhance the utility of the metabolic images. The interpretability experiment revealed that the FDG- and T1w-based models utilized the non-local input from physically remote ROIs to estimate the tau PET, but this was not the case for the PiB-based model. This implies that the model can learn the distinct biological relationship between FDG PET, T1w, and tau PET from the relationship between amyloid PET and tau PET. Our study suggests that extending neuroimaging's use with artificial intelligence to predict protein specific pathologies has great potential to inform emerging care models.

252. Assessment of technical and clinical utility of a bead-based flow cytometry platform for multiparametric phenotyping of CNS-derived extracellular vesicles.
Abstract: Extracellular vesicles (EVs) originating from the central nervous system (CNS) can enter the blood stream and carry molecules characteristic of disease states. Therefore, circulating CNS-derived EVs have the potential to serve as liquid-biopsy markers for early diagnosis and follow-up of neurodegenerative diseases and brain tumors. Monitoring and profiling of CNS-derived EVs using multiparametric analysis would be a major advance for biomarker as well as basic research. Here, we explored the performance of a multiplex bead-based flow-cytometry assay (EV Neuro) for semi-quantitative detection of CNS-derived EVs in body fluids.

253. Proteasome inhibition protects blood-brain barrier P-glycoprotein and lowers Aβ brain levels in an Alzheimer's disease model.
Abstract: Loss of P-glycoprotein (P-gp) at the blood-brain barrier contributes to amyloid-β (Aβ) brain accumulation in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Using transgenic human amyloid precursor protein (hAPP)-overexpressing mice (Tg2576), we previously showed that Aβ triggers P-gp loss by activating the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, which leads to P-gp degradation. Furthermore, we showed that inhibiting the ubiquitin-activating enzyme (E1) prevents P-gp loss and lowers Aβ accumulation in the brain of hAPP mice. Based on these data, we hypothesized that repurposing the FDA-approved proteasome inhibitor, bortezomib (Velcade®; BTZ), protects blood-brain barrier P-gp from degradation in hAPP mice in vivo.

254. Nisin a probiotic bacteriocin mitigates brain microbiome dysbiosis and Alzheimer's disease-like neuroinflammation triggered by periodontal disease.
Abstract: Periodontitis-related oral microbial dysbiosis is thought to contribute to Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuroinflammation and brain amyloid production. Since probiotics can modulate periodontitis/oral dysbiosis, this study examined the effects of a probiotic/lantibiotic, nisin, in modulating brain pathology triggered by periodontitis.

255. The therapeutic landscape of tauopathies: challenges and prospects.
Abstract: Tauopathies are a group of neurodegenerative disorders characterized by the aggregation of the microtubule-associated protein tau. Aggregates of misfolded tau protein are believed to be implicated in neuronal death, which leads to a range of symptoms including cognitive decline, behavioral change, dementia, and motor deficits. Currently, there are no effective treatments for tauopathies. There are four clinical candidates in phase III trials and 16 in phase II trials. While no effective treatments are currently approved, there is increasing evidence to suggest that various therapeutic approaches may slow the progression of tauopathies or improve symptoms. This review outlines the landscape of therapeutic drugs (indexed through February 28, 2023) that target tau pathology and describes drug candidates in clinical development as well as those in the discovery and preclinical phases. The review also contains information on notable therapeutic programs that are inactive or that have been discontinued from development.

256. Amine Group Surface-Functionalized Carbon Quantum Dots Exhibit Anti-amyloidogenic Effects Towards Hen Egg White Lysozyme by Inducing Formation of Nontoxic Spherical Aggregates.
Abstract: The tendency of polypeptide chains to deviate from their conventional protein folding pathway and instead get trapped as off-pathway intermediates, has been a matter of great concern. These off-pathway intermediates eventually lead to the formation of insoluble, ordered fibrillar aggregates called amyloids, which are responsible for a host of neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and Type II diabetes. In spite of extensive research, development of an effective therapeutic strategy against amyloidosis still remains elusive. In recent times, carbon quantum dots (CQD) have grabbed the attention of researchers against amyloidogenesis due to their ease of preparation, aqueous soluble nature, unique optical properties, high surface to volume ratio, physio-chemical properties, semi-conducting nature and mainly biocompatible. In the current study, we have reported an easy-to-prepare procedure for synthesis of amine group surface functionalized CQDs from commonly available kitchen spices with anti-oxidant properties. The as-synthesized CQDs were evaluated for their anti-amyloidogenic properties towards Hen Egg White Lysozyme (HEWL). Our results clearly show that the surfaced functionalized CQDs were able to interact with HEWL, thereby forming a stable complex, which was resistant towards amyloid formation and instead lead to the formation of non-toxic globular aggregates.

257. [Xixin Decoction improves learning and memory ability of SAMP8 by enhancing neuroprotective effect and inhibiting neuroinflammation].
Abstract: This study aimed to explore the possible effect of Xixin Decoction(XXD) on the learning and memory ability of Alzheimer's disease(AD) model senescence-accelerated mouse-prone 8(SAMP8) and the related mechanism in enhancing neuroprotective effect and reducing neuroinflammation. Forty SAMP8 were randomly divided into a model group(10 mL·kg~(-1)·d~(-1)), a probiotics group(0.39 g·kg~(-1)·d~(-1)), a high-dose group of XXD granules(H-XXD, 5.07 g·kg~(-1)·d~(-1)), a medium-dose group of XXD granules(M-XXD, 2.535 g·kg~(-1)·d~(-1)), and a low-dose group of XXD granules(L-XXD, 1.267 5 g·kg~(-1)·d~(-1)). Eight senescence-accelerated mouse-resistant 1(SAMR1) of the same age and strain were assigned to the control group(10 mL·kg~(-1)·d~(-1)). After ten weeks of intragastric administration, the Morris water maze was used to test the changes in spatial learning and memory ability of mice after treatment. Meanwhile, immunofluorescence staining was used to detect the positive expression of receptor for advanced glycation end products(AGER), Toll-like receptor 1(TLR1), and Toll-like receptor 2(TLR2) in the hippocampal CA1 region of mice. Western blot was employed to test the protein expression levels of silencing information regulator 2 related enzyme 1(SIRT1), AGER, TLR1, and TLR2 in the hippocampus of mice. Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA) was applied to assess the levels of Aβ_(1-42) in the hippocampus of mice and the levels of nuclear factor κB p65(NF-κB p65), NOD-like receptor protein 3(NLRP3), tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), and interleukin-1β(IL-1β) in the serum and hippocampus of mice. Compared with the model group, XXD significantly improved the spatial learning and memory ability of SAMP8, increased the expression of neuroprotective factors in the hippocampus, decreased the levels of neuroinflammatory factors, and inhibited the expression of Aβ_(1-42). In particular, H-XXD significantly increased the expression of SIRT1 in the hippocampus of mice, reduced the expression levels of NF-κB p65, NLRP3, TNF-α, and IL-1β in the serum and hippocampus of mice, and decreased the expression of AGER, TLR1, and TLR2 in the hippocampus of mice(P&lt;0.05 or P&lt;0.01). XXD may improve the spatial learning and memory ability of AD model SAMP8 by enhancing the neuroprotective effect and inhibiting neuroinflammation.

258. [Mechanism of albiflorin in improvement of Alzheimer's disease based on network pharmacology and in vitro experiments].
Abstract: This study aimed to explore the mechanism of albiflorin in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease(AD) based on network pharmacology, molecular docking, and in vitro experiments. Network pharmacology was used to predict the potential targets and pathways of albiflorin against AD, and molecular docking technology was used to verify the binding affinity of albiflorin to key target proteins. Finally, the AD cell model was induced by Aβ_(25-35) in rat pheochromocytoma(PC12) cells and intervened by albiflorin to validate core targets and pathways. The results of network pharmacological analysis showed that albiflorin acted on key targets such as mitogen-activated protein kinase-1(MAPK1 or ERK2), albumin(ALB), epidermal growth factor receptor(EGFR), caspase-3(CASP3), and sodium-dependent serotonin transporter(SLC6A4), and signaling pathways such as MAPK, cAMP, and cGMP-PKG. The results of molecular docking showed that albiflorin had strong binding affinity to MAPK1(ERK2). In vitro experiments showed that compared with the blank group, the model group showed decreased cell viability, decreased expression level of B-cell lymphoma 2(Bcl-2), increased Bcl-2-associated X protein(Bax), and reduced phosphorylation level of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2(ERK1/2) and the relative expression ratio of p-ERK1/2 to ERK1/2. Compared with the model group, the albiflorin group showed potentiated cell viability, up-regulated expression of Bcl-2, down-regulated Bax, and increased phosphorylation level of ERK1/2 and the relative expression ratio of p-ERK1/2 to ERK1/2. These results suggest that the mechanism of albiflorin against AD may be related to its activation of the MAPK/ERK signaling pathway and its inhibition of neuronal apoptosis.

259. [Platycladi Semen oil ameliorates Aβ_(25-35)-induced brain injury in mice based on network pharmacology and gut microbiota].
Abstract: The present study aimed to investigate the protective effect and underlying mechanism of Platycladi Semen oil(SP) on Aβ_(25-35)-induced brain injury in mice to provide a theoretical basis for the clinical treatment of Alzheimer's disease(AD). Male Kunming(KM) mice were randomly divided into a control group, a model group(brain injection of Aβ_(25-35), 200 μmol·L~(-1), 0.15 μL·g~(-1)), a positive drug group(donepezil, 10 mg·kg~(-1)), and low-and high-dose SP groups(0.5 and 1 mL·kg~(-1)). Learning and memory ability, neuronal damage, levels of Aβ_(1-42)/Aβ_(1-40), p-Tau, related indicators of apoptosis and oxidative stress, and immune cells, and protein and mRNA expression related to the sphingosine kinase 1(SPHK1)/sphingosine-1-phosphate(S1P)/sphingosine-1-phosphate receptor 5(S1PR5) signaling pathway of mice in each group were determined. In addition, compounds in SP were analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry(GC-MS). The mechanism of SP against AD was investigated by network pharmacology, 16S rDNA gene sequencing for gut microbiota(GM), and molecular docking techniques. The results showed that SP could improve the learning and memory function of Aβ_(25-35)-induced mice, reduce hippocampal neuronal damage, decrease the levels of Aβ_(1-42)/Aβ_(1-40), p-Tau, and indicators related to apoptosis and oxidative stress in the brain, and maintain the homeostasis of immune cells and GM. Network pharmacology and sequencing analysis for GM showed that the therapeutic effect of SP on AD was associated with the sphingolipid signaling pathway. Meanwhile,(Z,Z,Z)-9,12,15-octadecatrienoic acid and(Z,Z)-9,12-octadecadienoic acid, the components with the highest content in SP, showed good binding activity to SPHK1 and S1PR5. Therefore, it is inferred that SP exerts anti-apoptosis and antioxidant effects by regulating GM and inhibiting SPHK1/S1P/S1PR5 pathway, thereby improving brain injury induced by Aβ_(25-35) in mice. Moreover,(Z,Z,Z)-9,12,15-octadecatrienoic acid and(Z,Z)-9,12-octadecadienoic acid may be the material basis for the anti-AD effect of SP.

260. [Serum metabolomics study of Psoraleae Fructus in improving learning and memory ability of APP/PS1 mice].
Abstract: This study aimed to investigate the mechanism of Psoraleae Fructus in improving the learning and memory ability of APP/PS1 mice by serum metabolomics, screen the differential metabolites of Psoraleae Fructus on APP/PS1 mice, and reveal its influence on the metabolic pathway of APP/PS1 mice. Thirty 3-month-old APP/PS1 mice were randomly divided into a model group and a Psoraleae Fructus extract group, and another 15 C57BL/6 mice of the same age were assigned to the blank group. The learning and memory ability of mice was evaluated by the Morris water maze and novel object recognition tests, and metabolomics was used to analyze the metabolites in mouse serum. The results of the Morris water maze test showed that Psoraleae Fructus shortened the escape latency of APP/PS1 mice(P&lt;0.01), and increased the number of platform crossing and residence time in the target quadrant(P&lt;0.01). The results of the novel object recognition test showed that Psoraleae Fructus could improve the novel object recognition index of APP/PS1 mice(P&lt;0.01). Eighteen differential metabolites in serum were screened out by metabolomics, among which the levels of arachidonic acid, tryptophan, and glycerophospholipid decreased after drug administration, while the levels of glutamyltyrosine increased after drug administration. The metabolic pathways involved included arachidonic acid metabolism, glycerophospholipid metabolism, tryptophan metabolism, linoleic acid metabolism, α-linolenic acid metabolism, and glycerolipid metabolism. Therefore, Psoraleae Fructus can improve the learning and memory ability of APP/PS1 mice, and its mechanism may be related to the effects in promoting energy metabolism, reducing oxidative damage, protecting central nervous system, reducing neuroinflammation, and reducing Aβ deposition. This study is expected to provide references for Psoraleae Fructus in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease(AD) and further explain the mechanism of Psoraleae Fructus in the treatment of AD.

261. [Heixiaoyao Powder interferes with microglia polarization in AD model mice by regulating NOX2/ROS/NF-κB signaling pathway].
Abstract: The effect and mechanism of Heixiaoyao Powder on the polarization of microglia(MG) in APP/PS1 double transgenic mice were explored based on NADPH oxidase 2(NOX2)/reactive oxygen species(ROS)/nuclear factor kappaB(NF-κB) signaling pathway. Fifty 4-month-old male APP/PS1 mice were randomly divided into a model group, an MCC950 group(10 mg·kg~(-1)), and low-, medium-, and high-dose Heixiaoyao Powder groups(6.45, 12.89, and 25.78 g·kg~(-1)). Thirty male C57BL/6J mice of the same age and strain were randomly divided into a blank group, a blank + intragastric intervention group, and a blank + intraperitoneal injection group. Drug intervention lasted 90 days. Morris water maze test was used to detect learning and cognitive ability. Nissl staining and transmission electron microscopy were used to observe the pathological morphology and ultrastructure of hippocampal neurons. Immunofluorescence was used to detect the positive expression of M1-type marker CD16/32~+/Iba-1~+, M2-type marker CD206~+/Iba-1~+ of MG and the expression of hippocampal ROS. The colorimetric method was used to detect the content of malondialdehyde(MDA) and superoxide dismutase(SOD) in the hippocampus. Enzyme linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA) was used to detect the levels of inflammatory factors, including interleukin-6(IL-6), interleukin-8(IL-8), and tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α), in the hippocampus. Western blot was used to detect the protein expression of β-amyloid protein(Aβ), Iba-1, CD16/32, CD206, NOX2, NF-κB, p-NF-κB, NF-κB inhibitor alpha(IκBα), and p-IKBα in the hippocampus. The results showed that as compared with the blank group, the model group showed prolonged target quadrant movement distance and escape latency(P&lt;0.01), shortened target quadrant retention time and percentage(P&lt;0.01), disorganized neuronal cells with swelling, nuclear disappearance or bias, reduced number of cells, dissolved or absent Nissl bodies, and a clear area in the cytoplasm, damaged and shrunk cell membrane with abnormal cell morphology, few organelles in the cytoplasm, reduced and swollen mitochondria, increased MG M1-type marker CD16/32~+/Iba-1~+(P&lt;0.01), decreased M2-type marker CD206~+/Iba-1~+(P&lt;0.01), increased ROS activity and MDA content(P&lt;0.01), decreased SOD level(P&lt;0.01), elevated inflammatory factors IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-α(P&lt;0.01), up-regulated protein expression and phosphorylation of Aβ, CD16/32, Iba-1, NOX2, NF-κB, and IKBα(P&lt;0.01), and down-regulated CD206(P&lt;0.01). There was no statistically significant difference between the blank group, the blank + intragastric intervention group, and the blank + intraperitoneal injection group. After the intervention of Heixiaoyao Powder, the Heixiaoyao Powder groups showed shortened target quadrant movement distance and escape latency(P&lt;0.01), prolonged target quadrant retention time and percentage(P&lt;0.01), increased and neatly arranged cells with relieved swelling, increased Nissl bodies, regular cell morphology, and intact cell membrane, relieved swelling of mitochondria, slightly expanded endoplasmic reticulum, decreased CD16/32~+/Iba-1~+(P&lt;0.05 or P&lt;0.01), increased CD206~+/Iba-1~+(P&lt;0.01), decreased ROS activity and MDA content(P&lt;0.01), increased SOD level(P&lt;0.01), decreased content of inflammatory factors IL-6, IL-8, and TNF-α(P&lt;0.01), down-regulated protein expression and phosphorylation of Aβ, CD16/32, Iba-1, NOX2, NF-κB, and IKBα(P&lt;0.01), and up-regulated CD206(P&lt;0.01). In conclusion, Heixiaoyao Powder can alleviate neuronal damage and improve the learning and memory abilities of APP/PS1 mice. The mechanism of action may be related to the inhibition of NOX2/ROS/NF-κB signaling pathway, regulating the polarization of MG, increasing the expression of M2 type, inhibiting the expression of M1 type, and reducing the release of inflammatory factor.

262. [Effect of aqueous extract of Corni Fructus on Aβ_(25-35)-induced brain injury and neuroinflammation in mice with Alzheimer's disease].
Abstract: The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of aqueous extract of Corni Fructus on β-amyloid protein 25-35(Aβ_(25-35))-induced brain injury and neuroinflammation in Alzheimer's disease(AD) mice to provide an experimental basis for the treatment of AD by aqueous extract of Corni Fructus. Sixty C57BL/6J male mice were randomly divided into a sham group, a model group, a positive control group(huperizine A, 0.2 mg·kg~(-1)), a low-dose aqueous extract of Corni Fructus group(1.3 g·kg~(-1)), a medium-dose aqueous extract of Corni Fructus group(2.6 g·kg~(-1)), and a high-dose aqueous extract of Corni Fructus group(5.2 g·kg~(-1)). The AD model was induced by lateral ventricular injection of Aβ_(25-35) in mice except for those in the sham group, and AD model mice were treated with corresponding drugs by gavage for 24 days. The behavioral test was performed one week before animal dissection. Hematoxylin-eosin(HE) staining was performed to observe the morphology of neurons in the hippocampal region. Flow cytometry was used to detect the apoptosis level of primary hippocampal cells in mice. ELISA kits were used to detect the levels of β-amyloid protein 1-42(Aβ_(1-42)) and phosphorylated microtubule-associated protein Tau(p-Tau) in mouse brain tissues. Immunofluorescence and Western blot were used to detect the expression of related proteins in mouse brain tissues. MTT assay was used to detect the effect of compounds in aqueous extract of Corni Fructus on Aβ_(25-35)-induced N9 cell injury. Molecular docking was employed to analyze the interactions of caffeic acid, trans-p-hydroxy cinnamic acid, isolariciresinol-9'-O-β-D-glucopyranoside, esculetin, and(+)-lyoniresinol with β-amyloid precursor protein(APP), interleukin-6(IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor-α(TNF-α). Aqueous extract of Corni Fructus could improve the learning and memory abilities of Aβ_(25-35)-induced mice by increasing the duration of the autonomous activity, the rate of autonomous alternation, the preference coefficient, and the discrimination coefficient, and reduce Aβ_(25-35)-induced brain injury and neuroinflammation in mice by increasing the expression levels of interleukin-10(IL-10) and B-cell lymphoma-2(Bcl-2) in brain tissues, decreasing the expression levels of Aβ_(1-42), p-Tau, IL-6, TNF-α, cysteine aspartate-specific protease 3(caspase-3), cysteine aspartate-specific protease 9(caspase-9), and Bcl-2-associated X protein(Bax), and decreasing the number of activated glial cells in brain tissues. The results of cell experiments showed that esculetin and(+)-lyoniresinol could improve Aβ_(25-35)-induced N9 cell injury. Molecular docking results showed that caffeic acid, trans-p-hydroxy cinnamic acid, isolariciresinol-9'-O-β-D-glucopyranoside, esculetin, and(+)-lyoniresinol had good binding affinity with APP and weak binding affinity with IL-6 and TNF-α. Aqueous extract of Corni Fructus could ameliorate cognitive dysfunction and brain damage in Aβ_(25-35)-induced mice by reducing the number of apoptotic cells and activated glial cells in the brain and decreasing the expression level of inflammatory factors. Caffeic acid, trans-p-hydroxy cinnamic acid, isolariciresinol-9'-O-β-D-glucopyranoside, esculetin, and(+)-lyoniresinol may be the material basis for the anti-AD effect of aqueous extract of Corni Fructus.

263. In vitro methods to assess 11β-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 activity.
Abstract: 11β-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type 1 (11β-HSD1) converts inactive 11-keto-glucocorticoids to their active 11β-hydroxylated forms. It also catalyzes the oxoreduction of other endogenous and exogenous substrates. The ubiquitously expressed 11β-HSD1 shows high levels in liver and other metabolically active tissues such as brain and adipose tissue. Pharmacological inhibition of 11β-HSD1 was found to ameliorate adverse metabolic effects of elevated glucocorticoids in rodents and humans, improve wound healing and delay skin aging, and enhance memory and cognition in rodent Alzheimer's disease models. Thus, there is an interest to develop 11β-HSD1 inhibitors for therapeutic purposes. This chapter describes in vitro methods to assess 11β-HSD1 enzyme activity for different purposes, be it in disease models, for the assessment of the kinetics of novel substrates or for the screening and characterization of inhibitors. 11β-HSD1 protein expression and preparations of the different biological samples are discussed first, followed by a description of a well-established and easily adaptable 11β-HSD1 enzyme activity assay. Finally, different readout methods are shortly described. This chapter should provide the reader with a toolbox of methods to assess 11β-HSD1 activity with instructions in the form of a decision tree for the choice and implementation of an appropriate enzyme activity assay.

264. The link between metabolic syndrome and Alzheimer disease: A mutual relationship and long rigorous investigation.
Abstract: It has been illustrated that metabolic syndrome (MetS) is associated with Alzheimer disease (AD) neuropathology. Components of MetS including central obesity, hypertension, insulin resistance (IR), and dyslipidemia adversely affect the pathogenesis of AD by different mechanisms including activation of renin-angiotensin system (RAS), inflammatory signaling pathways, neuroinflammation, brain IR, mitochondrial dysfunction, and oxidative stress. MetS exacerbates AD neuropathology, and targeting of molecular pathways in MetS by pharmacological approach could a novel therapeutic strategy in the management of AD in high risk group. However, the underlying mechanisms of these pathways in AD neuropathology are not completely clarified. Therefore, this review aims to elucidate the association between MetS and AD regarding the oxidative and inflammatory mechanistic pathways.

265. How far are we from reliable metabolomics-based biomarkers? The often-overlooked importance of addressing inter-individual variability factors.
Abstract: Metabolomics has proven great potential to unravel the molecular basis of diseases. However, most attempts aimed at identifying reliable metabolomics-based biomarkers for diagnosis, prediction, and prognosis of diseases have repeatedly failed because of inconsistent results and unsatisfactory replication in independent cohorts. This review article explores the possible causes behind this reproducibility crisis, with special focus on the role that inter-individual variability factors play in modulating the susceptibility to disease development. Furthermore, we provide future perspectives on the applicability of metabolomics in biomedical research and its translatability into clinical practice.

266. Neuronal loss and inflammation preceding fibrillary tau pathology in a rat model with early human-like tauopathy.
Abstract: In tauopathies such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD), the microtubule associated protein tau undergoes conformational and posttranslational modifications in a gradual, staged pathological process. While brain atrophy and cognitive decline are well-established in the advanced stages of tauopathy, it is unclear how the early pathological processes manifest prior to extensive neurodegeneration. For these studies we have applied a transgenic rat model of human-like tauopathy in its heterozygous form, named McGill-R955-hTau. The goal of the present study was to investigate whether lifelong accumulation of mutated human tau could reveal the earliest tau pathological processes in a context of advanced aging, and, at stages before the overt aggregated or fibrillary tau deposition. We characterized the phenotype of heterozygous R955-hTau rats at three endpoints, 10, 18 and 24-26 months of age, focusing on markers of cognitive capabilities, progressive tau pathology, neuronal health, neuroinflammation and brain ultrastructural integrity, using immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy. Heterozygous R955-hTau transgenic rats feature a modest, life-long accumulation of mutated human tau that led to tau hyperphosphorylation and produced deficits in learning and memory tasks after 24 months of age. Such impairments coincided with more extensive tau hyperphosphorylation in the brain at residues pThr231 and with evidence of oligomerization. Importantly, aged R955-hTau rats presented evidence of neuroinflammation, detriments to myelin morphology and detectable hippocampal neuronal loss in the absence of overt neurofibrillary lesions and brain atrophy. The slow-progressing tauopathy of R955-hTau rats should allow to better delineate the temporal progression of tau pathological events and therefore to distinguish early indicators of tauopathy as having the capability to induce degenerative events in the aged CNS.

267. A cell therapy approach to restore microglial Trem2 function in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Abstract not available for PMID: 37802040

268. History of obstructive sleep apnea associated with incident cognitive impairment in white but not black individuals in a US national cohort study.
Abstract: We sought to determine if risk for obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), a history of OSA, and/or treatment of OSA has a different association with incident cognitive impairment or cognitive decline in Black individuals and White individuals.

269. The Association Between Herpes Simplex Virus and Alzheimer's Disease: A Systematic Review.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a significant public health concern, affecting more than 6 million Americans; and currently, there are no cure or effective treatment options. The underlying etiology and pathogenesis are not fully understood, presenting a barrier to therapy. A substantial amount of data exists associating infection with Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) and AD. This review of published studies highlights the epidemiological associations between HSV-1 and AD. A systematic search of PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science was conducted on January 6, 2022, using PRISMA guidelines. Articles that presented epidemiological data correlating HSV-1 with AD were included. Bibliographies were screened for additional relevant articles as well. After review, 21 studies were included: 2 review articles and 19 population-based studies including case control, cohort, and cross-sectional studies.&nbsp; The quantitative data derived from the studies in this report substantiate a relationship between infection with HSV-1 and AD. Based on these results, it may be of reasonable benefit to more consistently treat latent or active HSV-1 infection with anti-viral medications to potentially reduce the risk of AD. Furthermore, a prospective randomized controlled clinical trial could elucidate the benefit of anti-viral therapy to prevent or limit AD.J Drugs Dermatol. 2023;22(10):1046-1052&nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; doi:10.36849/JDD.6785.

270. Novel diagnostic biomarkers of oxidative stress, immunological characterization and experimental validation in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative condition causing cognitive decline. Oxidative stress (OS) is believed to contribute to neuronal death and dysfunction in AD. We conducted a study to identify differentially expressed OS-related genes (DEOSGs) through bioinformatics analysis and experimental validation, aiming to develop a diagnostic model for AD. We analyzed the GSE33000 dataset to identify OS regulator expression profiles and create molecular clusters (C1 and C2) associated with immune cell infiltration using 310 AD samples. Cluster analysis revealed significant heterogeneity in immune infiltration. The 'WGCNA' algorithm identified cluster-specific and disease-specific differentially expressed genes (DGEs). Four machine learning models (random forest (RF), support vector machine (SVM), generalized linear model (GLM) and extreme gradient boosting (XGB)) were compared, with GLM performing the best (AUC = 0.812). Five DEOSGs (NFKBIA, PLCE1, CLIC1, SLCO4A1, TRAF3IP2) were identified based on the GLM model. AD subtype prediction accuracy was validated using nomograms and calibration curves. External datasets (GSE122063 and GSE106241) confirmed the expression levels and clinical significance of important genes. Experimental validation through RT-qPCR showed increased expression of NFKBIA, CLIC1, SLCO4A1, TRAF3IP2, and decreased expression of PLCE1 in the temporal cortex of AD mice. This study provides insights for AD research and treatment, particularly focusing on the five model-related DEOSGs.

271. Structure-based design of nanobodies that inhibit seeding of Alzheimer's patient-extracted tau fibrils.
Abstract: Despite much effort, antibody therapies for Alzheimer's disease (AD) have shown limited efficacy. Challenges to the rational design of effective antibodies include the difficulty of achieving specific affinity to critical targets, poor expression, and antibody aggregation caused by buried charges and unstructured loops. To overcome these challenges, we grafted previously determined sequences of fibril-capping amyloid inhibitors onto a camel heavy chain antibody scaffold. These sequences were designed to cap fibrils of tau, known to form the neurofibrillary tangles of AD, thereby preventing fibril elongation. The nanobodies grafted with capping inhibitors blocked tau aggregation in biosensor cells seeded with postmortem brain extracts from AD and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) patients. The tau capping nanobody inhibitors also blocked seeding by recombinant tau oligomers. Another challenge to the design of effective antibodies is their poor blood-brain barrier (BBB) penetration. In this study, we also designed a bispecific nanobody composed of a nanobody that targets a receptor on the BBB and a tau capping nanobody inhibitor, conjoined by a flexible linker. We provide evidence that the bispecific nanobody improved BBB penetration over the tau capping inhibitor alone after intravenous administration in mice. Our results suggest that the design of synthetic antibodies that target sequences that drive protein aggregation may be a promising approach to inhibit the prion-like seeding of tau and other proteins involved in AD and related proteinopathies.

272. [The oral microbiome in the context of systemic disease].
Abstract: The oral microbiome is a community of symbiotic, commensal and opportunistic microorganisms, usually present in the form of biofilm, that plays a critical role in maintaining the homeostasis and protective function of the oral cavity. Recently, the study of the human oral microbiome to develop new diagnostic and therapeutic approaches has become a promising new area of the research in the field of personalized medicine. The aim of this review was to generalise and analyse the accumulated data on the relationship between the oral microbiome characteristics and the course of systemic diseases. Material and methods. Literature searches were performed using RSCI, PubMed, Google Scholar, and included original research data published mainly in the last 5 years. Results. The review summarized data on the role of the oral microbiome in the development of a number of systemic diseases, including alimentary diseases. The importance of the major exogenous and endogenous factors that lead to changes in the oral microbiome, including diet, macro- and micronutrient composition of foods, was highlighted. Data were provided on the main types of microorganisms associated with the development and c ourse of a number of somatic diseases, represented mainly by obligate anaerobic periodontal pathogens (Tannerella forsythia, Treponema denticola, Porphyromonas gingivalis, Prevotella intermedia, Fusobacterium nucleatum, Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans). The role of the systemic inflammatory response as the main pathogenetic factor of oral dysbiosis has been described. The benefits of periodontal therapy in metabolic disorders such as diabetes mellitus, obesity, and dyslipidemia have been discussed. Promising approaches to correct oral dysbiosis have been presented. Conclusion. The knowledge of the relationships between the oral microbiome composition, the development and characteristics of the course of somatic disease can contribute to the development of new technologies for its prevention and treatment. The change in the structure of the oral microbiome observed in systemic diseases is usually accompanied by a decrease in bacterial diversity and an increase in the number of pathogenic bacteria. Lifestyle modification, dietary therapy, smoking cessation, rational use of antibacterial drugs and treatment of periodontitis play an important role in normalising the structure of the oral microbiome.

273. Microtubule acetylation induced by oxidative stress regulates subcellular distribution of lysosomal vesicles for amyloid-beta secretion.
Abstract: Excessive production and accumulation of amyloid-beta (Aβ) in the brain are one of the hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although oxidative stress is known to trigger and promote the progression of AD, the molecular relationship between oxidative stress and Aβ production is not yet fully understood. In this study, we demonstrate that microtubule acetylation induced by oxidative stress plays a critical role in Aβ production and secretion by altering the subcellular distribution of Aβ precursor protein (APP)-containing lysosomal vesicles. Under oxidative stress, both H4-APPSwe/Ind and HEK293T-APPSwe/Ind cell lines showed increased microtubule acetylation and Aβ secretion. Knockdown (KD) of alpha-tubulin N-acetyltransferase 1 (ATAT1) by using a lentiviral shRNA not only inhibited the generation of intermediate APP fragments, such as β-CTF and AICD, but also suppressed Aβ secretion. Oxidative stress promoted the dispersion of LAMP1-positive vesicles to the periphery of the cell through microtubule acetylation, leading to the formation of neutralized lysosomal vesicles (NLVs), which was inhibited by ATAT1 KD. Treatment of the cells with the dynein ATPase inhibitor EHNA or downregulation of LIS1, a regulator of dynein-mediated intracellular transport, increased the peripheral localization of NLVs and promoted Aβ secretion, whereas KD of ADP ribosylation factor like GTPase 8B showed the opposite result. ATAT1 KD in the hippocampal region of the 5×FAD AD mouse model also showed significant reductions in Aβ plaque accumulation and memory loss. Taken together, these findings suggest that oxidative stress-induced microtubule acetylation promotes the peripheral localization of lysosomal vesicles to form NLVs, thereby enhancing Aβ secretion.

274. Diagnostic performance of MRI radiomics for classification of Alzheimer's disease, mild cognitive impairment, and normal subjects: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a debilitating neurodegenerative disease. Early diagnosis of AD and its precursor, mild cognitive impairment (MCI), is crucial for timely intervention and management. Radiomics involves extracting quantitative features from medical images and analyzing them using advanced computational algorithms. These characteristics have the potential to serve as biomarkers for disease classification, treatment response prediction, and patient stratification. Of note, Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) radiomics showed a promising result for diagnosing and classifying AD, and MCI from normal subjects. Thus, we aimed to systematically evaluate the diagnostic performance of the MRI radiomics for this task.

275. GP120 and tenofovir alafenamide alter cannabinoid receptor 1 expression in hippocampus of mice.
Abstract: Central nervous system (CNS) dysfunction remains prevalent in people with HIV (PWH) despite effective antiretroviral therapy (ART). There is evidence that low-level HIV infection and ART drugs may contribute to CNS damage in the brain of PWH with suppressed viral loads. As cannabis is used at a higher rate in PWH compared to the general population, there is interest in understanding how HIV proteins and ART drugs interact with the endocannabinoid system (ECS) and inflammation in the CNS. Therefore, we investigated the effects of the HIV envelope protein gp120 and tenofovir alafenamide (TAF) on cannabinoid receptor 1 (CB1R), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and IBA1 in the brain and on locomotor activity in mice. The gp120 transgenic (tg) mouse model was administered TAF daily for 30 days and then analyzed using the open field test before being euthanized, and their brains were analyzed for CB1R, GFAP, and IBA1 expression using immunohistochemical approaches. CB1R expression levels were significantly increased in CA1, CA2/3, and dentate gyrus of gp120tg mice compared to wt littermates; TAF reversed these effects. As expected, TAF showed a medium effect of enhancing GFAP in the frontal cortex of gp120tg mice in the frontal cortex. TAF had minimal effect on IBA1 signal. TAF showed medium to large effects on fine movements, rearing, total activity, total distance, and lateral activity in the open-field test. These findings suggest that TAF may reverse gp120-induced effects on CB1R expression and, unlike tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF), may not affect gliosis in the brain.

276. [Treatment-Quo vadis neurodegeneration?].
Abstract: Hallmarks of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease are pathological protein aggregation, neuroinflammation, neurodegeneration and progressive symptoms. Due to the limited causal treatment options they represent a big challenge.

277. Integrating TSPO PET imaging and transcriptomics to unveil the role of neuroinflammation and amyloid-β deposition in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Despite the revealed role of immunological dysfunctions in the development and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD) through animal and postmortem investigations, direct evidence regarding the impact of genetic factors on microglia response and amyloid-β (Aβ) deposition in AD individuals is lacking. This study aims to elucidate this mechanism by integrating transcriptomics and TSPO, Aβ PET imaging in clinical AD cohort.

278. Pathogenic variants in the Longitudinal Early-onset Alzheimer's Disease Study cohort.
Abstract: One goal of the Longitudinal Early-onset Alzheimer's Disease Study (LEADS) is to investigate the genetic etiology of early onset (40-64 years) cognitive impairment. Toward this goal, LEADS participants are screened for known pathogenic variants.

279. Neuroprotective effects of vitamin D in an Alzheimer's disease rat model: Improvement of mitochondrial dysfunction via calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase kinase 2 activation of Sirtuin1 phosphorylation.
Abstract: Mitochondrial dysfunction is an early event in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. To assess the impact of vitamin D3 (Vit.D) on neurogenesis, we investigated its role in mitigating cognitive impairment and mitochondrial dysfunction through calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase kinase 2 (CAMKK2)-mediated phosphorylation of Sirtuin1 (SIRT1) in an aluminum-chloride-D-galactose (AlCl3-D-gal)-induced AD rat model. Rats were distributed into four groups: control, AlCl3  + D-gal (10 + 60 mg/kg, ip), Vit.D (500 IU/kg, po), and AlCl3  + D-gal+Vit.D. Novel object recognition (NOR), Morris Water Maze, and passive avoidance (PA) tests were used to measure memory abilities. The hippocampal tissue was used to assess vitamin D3 receptor (VDR) and peroxisome-proliferator-activated-receptor-γ-coactivator-1α (PGC-1α) expression by quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), CAMKK2, p-SIRT1, phosphorylated-AMP-activated protein kinase (p-AMPK), dynamin-related-protein-1 (Drp1), and mitofusin-1 (Mnf1) proteins by western blot and Ca2+ levels, endothelial nitic oxide synthase (eNOS), superoxide dismutase (SOD), amyloid beta (Aβ), and phospho tau (p-Tau) via enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA) in addition to histological and ultrastructural examination of rat's brain tissue. Vit.D-attenuated hippocampal injury reversed the cognitive decline and Aβ aggregation, and elevated p-Tau levels in the AlCl3  + D-gal-induced AD rat model. In AlCl3  + D-gal-exposed rats, Vit.D induced VDR expression, normalized Ca2+ levels, elevated CAMKK2, p-AMPK, p-SIRT1, and PGC-1α expression. Vit.D reduced Drp1, induced Mnf1, increased mitochondrial membrane potential, preserved mitochondrial structure, restored normal mitochondrial function, and retained normal eNOS level and SOD activity in AlCl3  + D-gal rats. In conclusion, our findings proved that Vit.D may ameliorate cognitive deficits in AlCl3 + D-gal-induced AD by restoring normal mitochondrial function and reducing inflammatory and oxidative stress via CAMKK2-AMPK/SIRT1 pathway upregulation.

280. What Might Aducanumab Teach Us About Clinicians' Judgment About Whether to Recommend Emerging Alzheimer's Interventions?
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an incurable, progressive deterioration that ends, eventually, in death. For many years, AD's hallmark etiological feature was beta-amyloid plaque accumulation in the brain, but, to date, costly drugs designed to reduce beta-amyloid levels offer only marginal clinical benefit and pose significant risk of harm. Thus, there is strong interest in finding alternative AD-modifying interventions, and, despite controversy, aducanumab-an antibody-recently received approval by the US Food and Drug Administration. This article considers how ethical issues in the care of patients with AD could influence, for better or worse, clinicians' judgment about whether and when to recommend aducanumab.

281. Advances in the discovery of heterocyclic-based drugs against Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease is a multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder characterized by beta-amyloid accumulation and tau protein hyperphosphorylation. The disease involves interconnected mechanisms, which can be clustered into two target-packs based on the affected proteins. Pack-1 focuses on beta-amyloid accumulation, oxidative stress, and metal homeostasis dysfunction, and Pack-2 involves tau protein, calcium homeostasis, and neuroinflammation. Against this background heterocyclic system, there is a powerful source of pharmacophores to develop effective small drugs to treat multifactorial diseases like Alzheimer's.

282. Calcium channel blockers' contribution to overcoming Current drug discovery challenges in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive, irreversible, and multifactorial brain disorder that gradually and insidiously destroys individual's memory, thinking, and other cognitive abilities.

283. Inflammatory signaling pathways in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease with inhibitors, natural products and metabolites (Review).
Abstract: The intricate nature of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis poses a persistent obstacle to drug development. In recent times, neuroinflammation has emerged as a crucial pathogenic mechanism of AD, and the targeting of inflammation has become a viable approach for the prevention and management of AD. The present study conducted a comprehensive review of the literature between October 2012 and October 2022, identifying a total of 96 references, encompassing 91 distinct pharmaceuticals that have been investigated for their potential impact on AD by inhibiting neuroinflammation. Research has shown that pharmaceuticals have the potential to ameliorate AD by reducing neuroinflammation mainly through regulating inflammatory signaling pathways such as NF‑κB, MAPK, NLRP3, PPARs, STAT3, CREB, PI3K/Akt, Nrf2 and their respective signaling pathways. Among them, tanshinone IIA has been extensively studied for its anti‑inflammatory effects, which have shown significant pharmacological properties and can be applied clinically. Thus, it may hold promise as an effective drug for the treatment of AD. The present review elucidated the inflammatory signaling pathways of pharmaceuticals that have been investigated for their therapeutic efficacy in AD and elucidates their underlying mechanisms. This underscores the auspicious potential of pharmaceuticals in ameliorating AD by impeding neuroinflammation.

284. Aging Brain, Dementia and Impaired Glymphatic Pathway: Causal Relationships.
Abstract: Cellular and molecular processes that are of key importance in the development of neuroinflammation and increased cytokine response, activation of microglia and astrogliosis, contributing to the accumulation of metabolites and aberrant proteins in the brain tissue due to their overproduction and insufficient clearance, concomitant disturbance of architecture and sleep patterns are interconnected and induce brain aging with the formation its complex neurobiological mechanism. The study of these processes brings us closer to understanding the main determinants of healthy and unhealthy aging, primary prevention and preclinical diagnosis of age-related diseases, as well as to solving problems of longevity and increasing quality of life. The imbalance of homeostatic functions that support the exchange of fluids and solutes in the brain tissue is observed both in physiological aging and in the development of pathology of the nervous system with long-term consequences - from impaired synaptic signaling to the development of neurodegenerative diseases. Dementia is one of the major health problems worldwide and is very complex in terms of pathophysiology. Therefore, one of the priorities of fundamental neurobiology is to elucidate the main morbid mechanisms of Alzheimer's disease as the most common form of dementia. The hypotheses of β-amyloid and tau protein largely explain the main pathological features of Alzheimer's disease, however, there remains a need for further research on biomarkers with high validity and predictive applicability in people without cognitive impairment and clinical symptoms and in the early stages of the disease. There is a need to intensify the search for effective solutions to slow or stop the progression of the disease, especially therapeutic approaches that modify the disease at the preclinical stage, when it is most beneficial to change its course. At the same time, the discovery of aquaporin-dependent clearance pathways in the brain made it possible to identify new mechanisms underlying the etiology and progression of neurodegeneration and neuroinflammation. Glial-mediated clearance plays a fundamental role in the process of physiological aging, the development of age-related changes in the brain, and neurodegenerative processes. We analyzed 273 articles posted in PubMed database selected by keywords "glymphatic system, Alzheimer's disease, dementia, amyloid Aβ, aquaporin, aging, brain clearance". A total of 102 full-text articles were included in this review. This article presents up-to-date evidence on the causes and consequences in the study of the relationship between dysfunction of the glymphatic pathway and the accumulation of pathological proteins with insufficient excretion of toxic metabolites from the brain parenchyma, which is considered a key factor in the development of Alzheimer's dementia.

285. Neuropsychiatry and Neuropsychopharmacology of Dementia: a Guide to Evaluation, Diagnosis, and Management.
Abstract: In the present study, I provide an examination of the neuropsychiatric approach to patients with various types of dementia, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease dementia, Lewy body dementia, vascular dementia, frontotemporal dementia, and more. With a focus on the intersection of psychiatry and neurology, this paper underscores the importance of comprehensive neuropsychiatric evaluation, rigorous diagnosis, and evidence-based management. The paper delineates the neuropsychiatric manifestations specific to each type of dementia and explores both non-pharmacological and pharmacological management strategies, aiming to equip psychiatrists with the latest evidence-based approaches. Case studies are included to demonstrate real-world clinical scenarios and to provide insights into the practical application of the theories discussed. Additionally, this guide addresses current challenges in the neuropsychiatric approach to dementia and highlights potential solutions and future research directions. The primary objective of this guide is to enable psychiatrists to enhance the quality of life for individuals living with dementia by improving understanding, diagnosis, and management of the neuropsychiatric aspects of these conditions.

286. Uncovering the Achilles heel of genetic heterogeneity: machine learning-based classification and immunological properties of necroptosis clusters in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-associated neurodegenerative disease, and the currently available diagnostic modalities and therapeutic agents are unsatisfactory due to its high clinical heterogeneity. Necroptosis is a common type of programmed cell death that has been shown to be activated in AD.

287. Nanotube breakthroughs: unveiling the potential of carbon nanotubes as a dual therapeutic arsenal for Alzheimer's disease and brain tumors.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) and brain tumors are debilitating neurological conditions that pose significant challenges in current medical practices. Existing treatment options for AD primarily focus on symptom management, and brain tumors often require aggressive therapeutic approaches. Novel disease-modifying strategies and therapeutic agents are urgently needed to address the underlying causes of AD pathogenesis and improve brain tumor management. In recent years, nanoparticles (NPs) have shown promise as valuable tools in diagnosing and managing various brain disorders, including AD. Among these, carbon nanotubes (CNTs) have garnered attention for their unique properties and biomedical potential. Their ability to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB) with ease opens up new possibilities for targeted drug delivery and neuroprotection. This literature review aims to explore the versatile nature of CNTs, which can be functionalized with various biomolecules or substances due to their sp2 hybridization. This adaptability enables them to specifically target cells and deliver medications under specific environmental conditions. Moreover, CNTs possess an exceptional capacity to penetrate cell membranes, making them valuable tools in the treatment of AD and brain tumors. By delving into the role of CNTs in biomedicine, this review sheds light on their potential in managing AD, offering a glimpse of hope for effective disease-modifying options. Understanding the mechanisms of CNTs' action and their capabilities in targeting and delivering medication to affected cells will pave the way for innovative therapeutic strategies that can improve the lives of those afflicted with these devastating neurological conditions. The exploration of CNTs as a dual therapeutic arsenal for both brain tumors and Alzheimer's disease holds great promise and may usher in a new era of effective treatment strategies for these challenging conditions.

288. Controlled release of Clenbuterol from a hydroxyapatite carrier for the treatment of Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disorder, and Aβ aggregation is considered to be the central process implicated in its pathogenesis. Current treatments are faced by challenges such as serious side effects and reduced drug bioavailability. In this study, we developed a drug delivery system for intramuscular injection that uses cellular activity to achieve constant and long-term drug release.

289. Amyloid PET across the cognitive spectrum in former professional and college American football players: findings from the DIAGNOSE CTE Research Project.
Abstract: Exposure to repetitive head impacts (RHI) in American football players can lead to cognitive impairment and dementia due to neurodegenerative disease, particularly chronic traumatic encephalopathy (CTE). The pathognomonic lesion of CTE consists of perivascular aggregates of hyper-phosphorylated tau in neurons at the depths of cortical sulci. However, it is unclear whether exposure to RHI accelerates amyloid-β (Aβ) plaque formation and increases the risk for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although the Aβ neuritic plaques characteristic of AD are observed in a minority of later-stage CTE cases, diffuse plaques are more common. This study examined whether former professional and college American football players, including those with cognitive impairment and dementia, have elevated neuritic Aβ plaque density, as measured by florbetapir PET. Regardless of cognitive and functional status, elevated levels of florbetapir uptake were not expected.

290. Reduced lysosomal activity and increased amyloid beta accumulation in silica-coated magnetic nanoparticles-treated microglia.
Abstract: Nanoparticles have been used in neurological research in recent years because of their blood-brain barrier penetration activity. However, their potential neuronanotoxicity remains a concern. In particular, microglia, which are resident phagocytic cells, are mainly exposed to nanoparticles in the brain. We investigated the changes in lysosomal function in silica-coated magnetic nanoparticles containing rhodamine B isothiocyanate dye [MNPs@SiO2(RITC)]-treated BV2 murine microglial cells. In addition, we analyzed amyloid beta (Aβ) accumulation and molecular changes through the integration of transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics (triple-omics) analyses. Aβ accumulation significantly increased in the 0.1 μg/μl MNPs@SiO2(RITC)-treated BV2 cells compared to the untreated control and 0.01 μg/μl MNPs@SiO2(RITC)-treated BV2 cells. Moreover, the MNPs@SiO2(RITC)-treated BV2 cells showed lysosomal swelling, a dose-dependent reduction in proteolytic activity, and an increase in lysosomal swelling- and autophagy-related protein levels. Moreover, proteasome activity decreased in the MNPs@SiO2(RITC)-treated BV2 cells, followed by a concomitant reduction in intracellular adenosine triphosphate (ATP). By employing triple-omics and a machine learning algorithm, we generated an integrated single molecular network including reactive oxygen species (ROS), autophagy, lysosomal storage disease, and amyloidosis. In silico analysis of the single triple omics network predicted an increase in ROS, suppression of autophagy, and aggravation of lysosomal storage disease and amyloidosis in the MNPs@SiO2(RITC)-treated BV2 cells. Aβ accumulation and lysosomal swelling in the cells were alleviated by co-treatment with glutathione (GSH) and citrate. These findings suggest that MNPs@SiO2(RITC)-induced reduction in lysosomal activity and proteasomes can be recovered by GSH and citrate treatment. These results also highlight the relationship between nanotoxicity and Aβ accumulation.

291. Predicting cognitive decline in a low-dimensional representation of brain morphology.
Abstract: Identifying early signs of neurodegeneration due to Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a necessary first step towards preventing cognitive decline. Individual cortical thickness measures, available after processing anatomical magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), are sensitive markers of neurodegeneration. However, normal aging cortical decline and high inter-individual variability complicate the comparison and statistical determination of the impact of AD-related neurodegeneration on trajectories. In this paper, we computed trajectories in a 2D representation of a 62-dimensional manifold of individual cortical thickness measures. To compute this representation, we used a novel, nonlinear dimension reduction algorithm called Uniform Manifold Approximation and Projection (UMAP). We trained two embeddings, one on cortical thickness measurements of 6237 cognitively healthy participants aged 18-100 years old and the other on 233 mild cognitively impaired (MCI) and AD participants from the longitudinal database, the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative database (ADNI). Each participant had multiple visits ([Formula: see text]), one year apart. The first embedding's principal axis was shown to be positively associated ([Formula: see text]) with participants' age. Data from ADNI is projected into these 2D spaces. After clustering the data, average trajectories between clusters were shown to be significantly different between MCI and AD subjects. Moreover, some clusters and trajectories between clusters were more prone to host AD subjects. This study was able to differentiate AD and MCI subjects based on their trajectory in a 2D space with an AUC of 0.80 with 10-fold cross-validation.

292. Life-Course Brain Health as a Determinant of Late-Life Mental Health: American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry Expert Panel Recommendations.
Abstract: This position statement of the Expert Panel on Brain Health of the American Association for Geriatric Psychiatry (AAGP) emphasizes the critical role of life course brain health in shaping mental well-being during the later stages of life. Evidence posits that maintaining optimal brain health earlier in life is crucial for preventing and managing brain aging-related disorders such as dementia/cognitive decline, depression, stroke, and anxiety. We advocate for a holistic approach that integrates medical, psychological, and social frameworks with culturally tailored interventions across the lifespan to promote brain health and overall mental well-being in aging adults across all communities. Furthermore, our statement underscores the significance of prevention, early detection, and intervention in identifying cognitive decline, mood changes, and related mental illness. Action should also be taken to understand and address the needs of communities that traditionally have unequal access to preventive health information and services. By implementing culturally relevant and tailored evidence-based practices and advancing research in geriatric psychiatry, behavioral neurology, and geroscience, we can enhance the quality of life for older adults facing the unique challenges of aging. This position statement emphasizes the intrinsic link between brain health and mental health in aging, urging healthcare professionals, policymakers, and a broader society to prioritize comprehensive strategies that safeguard and promote brain health from birth through later years across all communities. The AAGP Expert Panel has the goal of launching further activities in the coming months and years.

293. Review of the therapeutic potential of Forsythiae Fructus on the central nervous system: Active ingredients and mechanisms of action.
Abstract: Traditional Chinese medicine has gained significant attention in recent years owing to its multi-component, multi-target, and multi-pathway advantages in treating various diseases. Forsythiae Fructus, derived from the dried fruit of Forsythia suspensa (Thunb.) Vahl, is one such traditional Chinese medicine with numerous in vivo and ex vivo therapeutic effects, including anti-inflammatory, antibacterial, and antiviral properties. Forsythiae Fructus contains more than 200 chemical constituents, with forsythiaside, forsythiaside A, forsythiaside B, isoforsythiaside, forsythin, and phillyrin being the most active ingredients. Forsythiae Fructus exerts neuroprotective effects by modulating various pathways, including oxidative stress, anti-inflammation, NF-κB signaling, 2-AG, Nrf2 signaling, acetylcholinesterase, PI3K-Akt signaling, ferroptosis, gut-brain axis, TLR4 signaling, endoplasmic reticulum stress, PI3K/Akt/mTOR signaling, and PPARγ signaling pathway.

294. Plasma neurofilament light chain predicts Alzheimer's disease in patients with subjective cognitive decline and mild cognitive impairment: A cross-sectional and longitudinal study.
Abstract: We aimed to evaluate the accuracy of plasma neurofilament light chain (NfL) in predicting Alzheimer's disease (AD) and the progression of cognitive decline in patients with subjective cognitive decline (SCD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI).

295. Brain Health Registry Study Partner Portal: Novel infrastructure for digital, dyadic data collection.
Abstract: In Alzheimer's disease (AD) research, subjective reports of cognitive and functional decline from participant-study partner dyads is an efficient method of assessing cognitive impairment and clinical progression.

296. Superiority of the Triple-Acting 5-HT6R/5-HT3R Antagonist and MAO-B Reversible Inhibitor PZ-1922 over 5-HT6R Antagonist Intepirdine in Alleviation of Cognitive Deficits in Rats.
Abstract: The multifactorial origin and neurochemistry of Alzheimer's disease (AD) call for the development of multitarget treatment strategies. We report a first-in-class triple acting compound that targets serotonin type 6 and 3 receptors (5-HT-Rs) and monoamine oxidase type B (MAO-B) as an approach for treating AD. The key structural features required for MAO-B inhibition and 5-HT6R antagonism and interaction with 5-HT3R were determined using molecular dynamic simulations and cryo-electron microscopy, respectively. Bioavailable PZ-1922 reversed scopolamine-induced cognitive deficits in the novel object recognition test. Furthermore, it displayed superior pro-cognitive properties compared to intepirdine (a 5-HT6R antagonist) in the AD model, which involved intracerebroventricular injection of an oligomeric solution of amyloid-β peptide (oAβ) in the T-maze test in rats. PZ-1922, but not intepirdine, restored levels of biomarkers characteristic of the debilitating effects of oAβ. These data support the potential of a multitarget approach involving the joint modulation of 5-HT6R/5-HT3R/MAO-B in AD.

297. Heterogeneity of Alzheimer's disease identified by neuropsychological test profiling.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a highly heterogeneous disorder. Untangling this variability could lead to personalized treatments and improve participant recruitment for clinical trials. We investigated the cognitive subgroups by using a data-driven clustering technique in an AD cohort. People with mild-moderate probable AD from Taiwan was included. Neuropsychological test results from the Cognitive Abilities Screening Instrument were clustered using nonnegative matrix factorization. We identified two clusters in 112 patients with predominant deficits in memory (62.5%) and non-memory (37.5%) cognitive domains, respectively. The memory group performed worse in short-term memory and orientation and better in attention than the non-memory group. At baseline, patients in the memory group had worse global cognitive status and dementia severity. Linear mixed effect model did not reveal difference in disease trajectory within 3 years of follow-up between the two clusters. Our results provide insights into the cognitive heterogeneity in probable AD in an Asian population.

298. Structure-based design of new N-benzyl-piperidine derivatives as multitarget-directed AChE/BuChE inhibitors for Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: The pathogenic complexity of Alzheimer's disease (AD) demands the development of multitarget-directed agents aiming at improving actual pharmacotherapy. Based on the cholinergic hypothesis and considering the well-established role of butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) in advanced stages of AD, the chemical structure of the acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor drug donepezil (1) was rationally modified for the design of new N-benzyl-piperidine derivatives (4a-d) as potential multitarget-direct AChE and BuChE inhibitors. The designed analogues were further studied through the integration of in silico and in vitro methods. ADMET predictions showed that 4a-d are anticipated to be orally bioavailable, able to cross the blood-brain barrier and be retained in the brain, and to have low toxicity. Computational docking and molecular dynamics indicated the formation of favorable complexes between 4a-d and both cholinesterases. Derivative 4a presented the lowest binding free energy estimation due to interaction with key residues from both target enzymes (-36.69 ± 4.47 and -32.23 ± 3.99 kcal/mol with AChE and BuChE, respectively). The in vitro enzymatic assay demonstrated that 4a was the most potent inhibitor of AChE (IC50 2.08 ± 0.16 µM) and BuChE (IC50 7.41 ± 0.44 µM), corroborating the in silico results and highlighting 4a as a novel multitarget-directed AChE/BuChE inhibitor.

299. [Cognitive impairment and tactics of using the drug Cerebrolysin. Resolution of the International Council of Experts (May 12, 2023)].
Abstract: The aging of the population and the associated increase in the share of cognitive impairments in the structure of a wide range of diseases are a serious challenge for modern healthcare. Difficulties in the treatment of cognitive disorders are determined by many factors, including the age of patients, comorbidity, forced polypragmasia and the adequacy of the dosage of drugs that restore cognitive activity. The experts discussed information about the therapeutic potential of the drug Cerebrolysin in the treatment of cognitive disorders of various origins, stated significant experience of its effective and safe use in many clinical studies in mild and moderate forms of dementia. At the same time, there was a lack of consistent and systematic data on the dosage regimen, frequency, and duration of use of the drug in different forms of cognitive impairment and the degree of their severity. The aim of the international council of experts was to determine the optimal dosage regimens of the drug Cerebrolysin in patients with various etiologies and severity of cognitive impairment. The result of the work was the approval of a unified scheme for the use of the drug Cerebrolysin, considering the severity of the disease and its duration.

300. [Features of neuropsychological status and results of magnetic resonance morphometry in patients with Alzheimer's disease and glaucoma].
Abstract: To identify the relationship of neuropsychological changes in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG) and to evaluate the results of magnetic resonance (MR)-morphometry in patients with these diseases.

301. Genetic and sporadic forms of tauopathies-TAU as a disease driver for the majority of patients but the minority of tauopathies.
Abstract: Ageing-associated tauopathies like frontotemporal dementia (FTD), variants thereof (like progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), pick diseases (PiD), corticobasal degeneration (CBD)), and of course the most prevalent form of dementia, Alzheimer Disease (AD), are widely recognized forms of tauopathies. The list of tauopathies is expanding. We now include: (i) tauopathies where the disease cause or trigger is clearly either physical, such as in Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) or Chronic Traumatic Encephalopathy (CTE), and (ii) genetic diseases that result in tauopathy but have pathogenic genetic variants in genes not related to TAU. Examples of the latter are myotonic dystrophy Type 1 and Type 2 (DM1, DM2, due to pathogenic genetic variants in the genes DMPK and CNBP, respectively), Niemann-Pick Disease Type C (NPD, due to mutations in NPC1 or NPC2), Kufs Disease (CLN6), Christianson Syndrome (SLC9A6), familial forms of Parkinson Disease (PD), and many others. In terms of affected brain regions and cell types, intracellular distribution of TAU pathology/aggregates, age of disease onset, velocity of disease progression and spreading of TAU pathology, there is, however, little in common in most of these disease entities. Here, I reason that TAU/MAPT is causative for the minority of tauopathies (e.g., MAPT-related FTD/PSP and Vacuolar Tauopathy (VCP)) and a critical mediator for others, like shown by overwhelming evidence for AD. However, TAU may also be a mere bystander or even protective in other settings. Improved understanding of rare tauopathies is necessary to develop specific treatments, but also to improve our understanding of the pathomechanistic role of TAU and to identify diseases that may profit from TAU-based therapies.

302. Characteristics of adverse drug reactions induced by flutamide and bicalutamide: a real-world pharmacovigilance study using FAERS.
Abstract: Flutamide and bicalutamide are indicated for the management of prostate metastatic carcinoma. The current study evaluated the adverse drug reactions related to flutamide and bicalutamide in a real-world setting.

303. An emerging spectrum of therapeutic targets for Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Development of effective preventative and therapeutic measures for Alzheimer's disease has been unsuccessful because of the long and subtly symptomatic preclinical period, difficulties obtaining tissue and biochemical data from living patients, and the many complex underlying pathogenic processes. Recent applications of sensitive specific bioimaging techniques, analyses of RNAs and proteins of neural cell-derived extracellular vesicles in blood, and sophisticated genetic procedures in cellular and rodent models have yielded hopeful new therapeutic targets. These newer targets are described here in relation to their neural cellular location, potential genetic modifications and possible pharmacological approaches.

304. Proton pump inhibitors and dementia: A nationwide population-based study.
Abstract: Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) may increase dementia risk. However, it is currently unknown whether timing of exposure or age at dementia diagnosis influence the risk.

305. Sink or swim: Does a worm paralysis phenotype hold clues to neurodegenerative disease?
Abstract: Receiving a neurodegenerative disease (NDD) diagnosis, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, is devastating, particularly given the limited options for treatment. Advances in genetic technologies have allowed for efficient modeling of NDDs in animals and brought hope for new disease-modifying medications. The complexity of the mammalian brain and the costs and time needed to identify and develop therapeutic leads limits progress. Modeling NDDs in invertebrates, such as the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster and the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans, offers orders of magnitude increases in speed of genetic analysis and manipulation, and can be pursued at substantially reduced cost, providing an important, platform complement and inform research with mammalian NDD models. In this review, we describe how our efforts to exploit C. elegans for the study of neural signaling and health led to the discovery of a paralytic phenotype (swimming-induced paralysis) associated with altered dopamine signaling and, surprisingly, to the discovery of a novel gene and pathway whose dysfunction in glial cells triggers neurodegeneration. Research to date on swip-10 and its putative mammalian ortholog MBLAC1, suggests that a tandem analysis will offer insights into NDD mechanisms and insights into novel, disease-modifying therapeutics.

306. Mechanistic insights into MARK4 inhibition by galantamine toward therapeutic targeting of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Introduction: Hyperphosphorylation of tau is an important event in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis, leading to the generation of "neurofibrillary tangles," a histopathological hallmark associated with the onset of AD and related tauopathies. Microtubule-affinity regulating kinase 4 (MARK4) is an evolutionarily conserved Ser-Thr (S/T) kinase that phosphorylates tau and microtubule-associated proteins, thus playing a critical role in AD pathology. The uncontrolled neuronal migration is attributed to overexpressed MARK4, leading to disruption in microtubule dynamics. Inhibiting MARK4 is an attractive strategy in AD therapeutics. Methods: Molecular docking was performed to see the interactions between MARK4 and galantamine (GLT). Furthermore, 250 ns molecular dynamic studies were performed to investigate the stability and conformational dynamics of the MARK4-GLT complex. We performed fluorescence binding and isothermal titration calorimetry studies to measure the binding affinity between GLT and MARK4. Finally, an enzyme inhibition assay was performed to measure the MARK4 activity in the presence and absence of GLT. Results: We showed that GLT, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, binds to the active site cavity of MARK4 with an appreciable binding affinity. Molecular dynamic simulation for 250 ns demonstrated the stability and conformational dynamics of the MARK4-GLT complex. Fluorescence binding and isothermal titration calorimetry studies suggested a strong binding affinity. We further show that GLT inhibits the kinase activity of MARK4 significantly (IC50 = 5.87 µM). Conclusion: These results suggest that GLT is a potential inhibitor of MARK4 and could be a promising therapeutic target for AD. GLT's inhibition of MARK4 provides newer insights into the mechanism of GLT's action, which is already used to improve cognition in AD patients.

307. Voice analysis results in individuals with Alzheimer's disease: How do age and cognitive status affect voice parameters?
Abstract: Reports of acoustic changes in the voice in individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and the relationship of acoustic changes with age and cognitive status are still limited.

308. Multivariate GWAS of Alzheimer's disease CSF biomarker profiles implies GRIN2D in synaptic functioning.
Abstract: Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) of Alzheimer's disease (AD) have identified several risk loci, but many remain unknown. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers may aid in gene discovery and we previously demonstrated that six CSF biomarkers (β-amyloid, total/phosphorylated tau, NfL, YKL-40, and neurogranin) cluster into five principal components (PC), each representing statistically independent biological processes. Here, we aimed to (1) identify common genetic variants associated with these CSF profiles, (2) assess the role of associated variants in AD pathophysiology, and (3) explore potential sex differences.

309. In vivo cortical diffusion imaging relates to Alzheimer's disease neuropathology.
Abstract: There has been increasing interest in cortical microstructure as a complementary and earlier measure of neurodegeneration than macrostructural atrophy, but few papers have related cortical diffusion imaging to post-mortem neuropathology. This study aimed to characterise the associations between the main Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuropathological hallmarks and multiple cortical microstructural measures from in vivo diffusion MRI. Comorbidities and co-pathologies were also investigated.

310. Drug development targeting degeneration of the basal forebrain cholinergic system: its time has come.
Abstract: Abstract not available for PMID: 37794391

311. Understanding the role of psychiatrists in the diagnosis and management of mild cognitive impairment and mild Alzheimer's disease dementia: a cross-sectional survey.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurological disorder and the most common cause of dementia. The clinical continuum of AD ranges from asymptomatic disease to mild cognitive impairment (MCI), followed by AD dementia, categorized as mild, moderate, or severe. Almost one-third of patients suspected of having MCI or mild AD dementia are referred to specialists including psychiatrists. We sought to better understand the role that psychiatrists play in the diagnosis, treatment, and management of patients with all-cause MCI or mild AD dementia.

312. Lactobacillus paracasei HII01 enhances lifespan and promotes neuroprotection in Caenorhabditis elegans.
Abstract: Achieving healthy aging and providing protection from aging-related diseases is a major global concern. Probiotics, are a safer and more natural alternative. Moreover, identifying novel probiotics can help develop a new therapeutic approach and may help in personalized probiotic-formulations for individual's unique gut microbiome. In this study, we evaluated the benefits of our novel probiotic strains in promoting healthy aging and whether they protect against Amyloid β toxicity of Alzheimer's disease. Henceforth, we analyzed the impact of four different probiotics (Lactobacillus paracasei HII01, L. rhamnosus, L. reuteri, L. salivarius) on the lifespan extension of Caenorhabditis elegans model. Our results determine that L. paracasei HII01 provided the most positive effect on longevity and antiaging effects on C. elegans. The qPCR data and mutant-based studies indicated that L. paracasei HII01-mediated lifespan extension could be modulated by DAF-16 mediated pathway. The probiotic strains also protected the worms from the toxicity induced by β-Amyloid-expressing (Aβ) transgenic C. elegans strains, and L. paracasei HII01 provided the most significant protection. Overall, identifying novel probiotics is an important area of research that can improve health outcomes. Our study showed that L. paracasei HII01 could be considered a dietary supplement for providing healthy aging and preventing aging-related diseases.

313. LATE-NC in Alzheimer's disease: Molecular aspects and synergies.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is classically characterized by senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs). However, multiple copathologies can be observed in the AD brain and contribute to the development of cognitive decline. Limbic-predominant age-related TDP-43 encephalopathy neuropathological changes (LATE-NC) accumulates in the majority of AD cases and leads to more severe cognitive decline compared with AD pathology alone. In this review, we focus on the synergistic relationship between LATE-NC and tau in AD, highlighting the aggravating role of TDP-43 aggregates on tau pathogenesis and its impact on the clinical picture and therapeutic strategies. Additionally, we discuss to what extent the molecular patterns of LATE-NC in AD differ from frontotemporal lobar degeneration with TDP-43 pathology (FTLD-TDP) neuropathological changes. Thus, we highlight the importance of tau and TDP-43 synergies for subtyping AD patients, which may respond differently to therapeutic interventions depending on the presence of comorbid LATE-NC.

314. Antioxidative and neuroprotective potential of Acorus calamus linn. and Cordia dichotoma G. Forst. In Alzheimer's type dementia in rodent.
Abstract: The goal of this research study was to see how plant extracts of Acorus calamus Linn. and Cordia dichotoma G. Forst. overcome scopolamine-induced Alzheimer's type dementia in mice by activating the cholinergic system, anti-oxidant and protection of neuronal death in the brain (hippocampus region). Scopolamine (1 mg/kg i.p.) reduced mice's routine in behavioral parameters such as Morris Water Maze (MWM), Elevated Plus Maze (EPM), and also the locomotor activity. It also decreases antioxidant levels such as Reduced glutathione (GSH) and also Superoxide dismutase (SOD) but also increases the level of Acetylcholinesterase enzyme (AChE) in brain. Assessment of various behavioral, and biochemical parameters (AChE, SOD, GSH, and Nitrite level) were compared with each group. Acorus calamus (hydro-alcoholic 1:1) 600 mg/kg p.o. and the combination (Acorus calamus 600 mg/kg p.o. + Cordia dichotoma 750 mg/kg p.o.) group showed significant results as compared to Cordia dichotoma 750 mg/kg p.o.in behavioral as well as in biochemical parameters. Histological studies showed significant neuroprotection in the Acorus calamus-treated group and the combination-treated groups. In the future, the Acorus calamus and the combination are possibly helpful in the treatment of various cognitive disorders or it may be valuable to investigate the pharmacological potential of such plant extracts during the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders.

315. Development and optimization of in-situ gel containing chitosan nanoparticles for possible nose-to-brain delivery of vinpocetine.
Abstract: Vinpocetine (VIN), a derivative of vincamine found in the vinca plant, widens blood vessels in the brain and has been shown to improve cognitive function, memory, and cerebrovascular disorders. Nevertheless, the clinical utility of VIN is constrained by factors such as low oral bioavailability owing to the first-pass metabolism that often demands frequent dosing of 3-4 tablets/day. In this regard, the present work aimed to develop VIN-loaded chitosan nanoparticles (VIN-CH-NPs) to surmount these limitations and in view to enhance delivery to the brain of VIN by minimizing systemic exposure. The chitosan (CH) nanoparticles (NP) were developed by ionotropic gelation technique employing tripolyphosphate (TPP) as a cross-linking agent. Employing Design of Experiments (DoE), the effect of CH and TPP concentrations and stirring speed were systematically optimized using Box Behnken design (BBD). The optimized batch of nanoparticles displayed a particle size, zeta potential, entrapment efficiency, and drug loading of 130.6 ± 8.38 nm, +40.81 ± 0.11 mV, 97.56 ± 0.04 %, and 61 ± 0.89 %, respectively. Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy indicated the chemical integrity of the drug ruling out the interaction between the VIN and excipients used. DSC and PXRD data indicated that reduction of the crystallinity of VIN in the chitosan matrix. These VIN-CH-NPs manifested good stability, exhibiting an almost spherical morphology. To mitigate rapid mucociliary clearance upon intranasal administration, the optimized VIN-CH-NPs were incorporated into thermosensitive in situ gel (VIN-CHN-ISG). It was observed that the in-situ gel loaded with nanoparticles was opalescent with a pH level of 5.3 ± 0.38. It was also noted that the gelation temperature was 32 ± 0.89 °C, and the gelation time was approximately 15 s. The drug delivery to the brain through the nasal application of optimized VIN-NPs in situ gel was assessed in rats. The results indicated significant nasal application of the in-situ gel nearly doubled the Cmax (P < 0.05) and AUC0-t (P < 0.05) in the brain compared to oral administration. Nasal administration improved drug delivery to the brain by reducing systemic exposure to VIN. A histopathological study of the nasal mucosa revealed no irritation or toxicity, making it safe for nasal administration. These findings suggest that the developed NPs in-situ gel effectively targeted vinpocetine to the brain through the nasal pathway, providing a potential therapeutic strategy for managing Alzheimer's disease.

316. Ginkgolide attenuates memory impairment and neuroinflammation by suppressing the NLRP3/caspase-1 pathway in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: The NLRP3 inflammasome is involved in the neuroinflammatory pathway of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The aim of this study is to explore the roles and underlying mechanisms of ginkgolide (Baiyu®) on amyloid precursor protein (APP)/presenilin 1 (PS1) transgenic mice and a murine microglial cell line, BV-2. In the present study, the APP/PS1 mice were administered with ginkgolide, followed by a Morris water maze test. The mice were then euthanized to obtain brain tissue for histological and Aβ analysis. Additionally, BV-2 cells were pretreated with ginkgolide and then incubated with Aβ1-42 peptide. NLRP3, ASC, and caspase-1 mRNA and protein expression in brain tissue of mice and BV-2 cells were quantified by real-time PCR and western blotting, as well as reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, interleukin (IL)-1β and IL-18 levels by lucigenin technique and ELISA. Compared with the APP/PS1 mice, ginkgolide-treated mice demonstrated the shortened escape latency, reduced plaques, less inflammatory cell infiltration and neuron loss in the hippocampi of APP/PS1 mice. The levels of NLRP3, ASC, caspase-1, ROS, IL-1β, and IL-18 were also decreased in the brain tissue of APP/PS1 mice or Aβ1-42-treated BV-2 cells following ginkgolide treatment. Ginkgolide exerted protective effects on AD, at least partly by inactivating the NLRP3/caspase-1 pathway.

317. Nuclear ERK1/2 signaling potentiation enhances neuroprotection and cognition via Importinα1/KPNA2.
Abstract: Cell signaling is central to neuronal activity and its dysregulation may lead to neurodegeneration and cognitive decline. Here, we show that selective genetic potentiation of neuronal ERK signaling prevents cell death in vitro and in vivo in the mouse brain, while attenuation of ERK signaling does the opposite. This neuroprotective effect mediated by an enhanced nuclear ERK activity can also be induced by the novel cell penetrating peptide RB5. In vitro administration of RB5 disrupts the preferential interaction of ERK1 MAP kinase with importinα1/KPNA2 over ERK2, facilitates ERK1/2 nuclear translocation, and enhances global ERK activity. Importantly, RB5 treatment in vivo promotes neuroprotection in mouse models of Huntington's (HD), Alzheimer's (AD), and Parkinson's (PD) disease, and enhances ERK signaling in a human cellular model of HD. Additionally, RB5-mediated potentiation of ERK nuclear signaling facilitates synaptic plasticity, enhances cognition in healthy rodents, and rescues cognitive impairments in AD and HD models. The reported molecular mechanism shared across multiple neurodegenerative disorders reveals a potential new therapeutic target approach based on the modulation of KPNA2-ERK1/2 interactions.

318. Development of fidelity of delivery and enactment measures for interventions in communication disorders.
Abstract: This study was part of a process evaluation for a single-blind, randomized controlled pilot study comparing Better Conversations with Primary Progressive Aphasia (BCPPA), an approach to communication partner training, with no speech and language therapy treatment. It was necessary to explore fidelity of delivery (delivery of intervention components) and intervention enactment (participants' use of intervention skills in the form of conversation behaviours comprising facilitators, that enhance the conversational flow, and barriers, that impeded the flow of conversation). This study aimed to: (1) Outline an adapted methodological process that uses video observation, to measure both fidelity of delivery and enactment. (2) Measure the extent to which the BCPPA pilot study was delivered as planned, and enacted.

319. PREVALENCE OF COMORBIDITIES IN PATIENTS WITH CHAGASIC MEGAESOPHAGUS.
Abstract: •The study investigated the prevalence of certain comorbidities in patients with Chagas megaoesophagus compared to those without the condition, aiming to determine whether it serves as a protective or risk factor. •In the general group (546 patients), the three most prevalent comorbidities were hypertension (44.3%), dyslipidaemia (17.8%), and heart failure (15.2%). •In the older group (248 patients), similar to that in the general group, the most prevalent comorbidities were hypertension, dyslipidaemia, and heart failure. •The lower prevalence of diabetes mellitus and Alzheimer's disease in the patients with Chagas megaoesophagus suggests the association of enteric nervous system denervation and requires further investigation. Objective - This study aimed to evaluate the prevalence of some epidemiologically important comorbidities in patients with Chagas megaoesophagus in relation to the population without megaoesophagus, and whether this condition would be a protective or a risk factor for the conditions analysed. Methods - This observational descriptive study collected data from the medical records of patients with a previous diagnosis of megaoesophagus (timing: from 2005 to 2020). The patients were divided by age into a general (all ages) and an older group (aged 60 years or more). Associations were searched for four main areas/systems/involvements: cardiovascular, respiratory, endocrine and neurological. Results - The general group included 546 patients and the older group included 248 patients. As for the prevalence of comorbidities in the general group, the three most prevalent diseases were hypertension, with 44.3% (CI95%: 40.21-48.51%); dyslipidaemia, with 17.8% (CI95%: 14.79-21.19%); and heart failure, with 15.2% (CI95%: 12.43-18.45%). Similar to that in the general group, the most prevalent comorbidities in the group of older patients were hypertension, dyslipidaemia, and heart failure. Conclusion - Systemic arterial hypertension, dyslipidaemia, and heart failure were the most prevalent comorbidities in this population. The lower prevalence of diabetes mellitus and Alzheimer's disease suggests the association of enteric nervous system denervation and requires further investigation.

320. Adaptive Gated Graph Convolutional Network for Explainable Diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease using EEG Data.
Abstract: Graph neural network (GNN) models are increasingly being used for the classification of electroencephalography (EEG) data. However, GNN-based diagnosis of neurological disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), remains a relatively unexplored area of research. Previous studies have relied on functional connectivity methods to infer brain graph structures and used simple GNN architectures for the diagnosis of AD. In this work, we propose a novel adaptive gated graph convolutional network (AGGCN) that can provide explainable predictions. AGGCN adaptively learns graph structures by combining convolution-based node feature enhancement with a correlation-based measure of power spectral density similarity. Furthermore, the gated graph convolution can dynamically weigh the contribution of various spatial scales. The proposed model achieves high accuracy in both eyes-closed and eyes-open conditions, indicating the stability of learned representations. Finally, we demonstrate that the proposed AGGCN model generates consistent explanations of its predictions that might be relevant for further study of AD-related alterations of brain networks.

321. Behavioral Treatment for Speech and Language in Primary Progressive Aphasia and Primary Progressive Apraxia of Speech: A Systematic Review.
Abstract: Primary progressive aphasia (PPA) and primary progressive apraxia of speech (PPAOS) are neurodegenerative syndromes characterized by progressive decline in language or speech. There is a growing number of studies investigating speech-language interventions for PPA/PPAOS. An updated systematic evaluation of the treatment evidence is warranted to inform best clinical practice and guide future treatment research. We systematically reviewed the evidence for behavioral treatment for speech and language in this population. Reviewed articles were published in peer-reviewed journals through 31 May 2021. We evaluated level of evidence, reporting quality, and risk of bias using a modified version of the American Speech-Language Hearing Association (ASHA) Levels of Evidence, an appraisal point system, additional reporting quality and internal/external validity items, and, as appropriate, the Single Case Experimental Design Scale or the Physiotherapy Evidence Database - PsycBITE Rating Scale for Randomized and Non-Randomized Controlled Trials. Results were synthesized using quantitative summaries and narrative review. A total of 103 studies reported treatment outcomes for 626 individuals with PPA; no studies used the diagnostic label PPAOS. Most studies evaluated interventions for word retrieval. The highest-quality evidence was provided by 45 experimental and quasi-experimental studies (16 controlled group studies, 29 single-subject designs). All (k = 45/45) reported improvement on a primary outcome measure; most reported generalization (k = 34/43), maintenance (k = 34/39), or social validity (k = 17/19) of treatment for at least one participant. The available evidence supports speech-language intervention for persons with PPA; however, treatment for PPAOS awaits systematic investigation. Implications and limitations of the evidence and the review are discussed.

322. [Dementia : current guidelines for clinical management].
Abstract: Dementia is an umbrella term used to describe a group of symptoms associated with a decline in cognitive abilities that are severe enough to interfere with daily functioning and independence. While Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most frequent cause, dementia in old aged persons represents rather a syndrome caused by various underlying conditions and diseases. Successful treatment allows for the individual clinical picture, and should be aimed at helping the patient regarding his cognitive deficits, behavioral and psychiatric complaints, sleep disorders, as well as management of daily life. Recently published promising study results on the use of monoclonal antibody therapies in AD give reason to believe that treatments will be available soon that can modulate disease progression at the neurobiological level.

323. APOE Christchurch-mimetic therapeutic antibody reduces APOE-mediated toxicity and tau phosphorylation.
Abstract: We discovered that the APOE3 Christchurch (APOE3Ch) variant may provide resistance to Alzheimer's disease (AD). This resistance may be due to reduced pathological interactions between ApoE3Ch and heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPGs).

324. Endothelial type I interferon response and brain diseases: identifying STING as a therapeutic target.
Abstract: The endothelium layer lining the inner surface of blood vessels serves relevant physiological functions in all body systems, including the exchanges between blood and extravascular space. However, endothelial cells also participate in innate and adaptive immune response that contribute to the pathophysiology of inflammatory disorders. Type I Interferon (IFN) signaling is an inflammatory response triggered by a variety of pathogens, but it can also be induced by misplaced DNA in the cytosol caused by cell stress or gene mutations. Type I IFN produced by blood leukocytes or by the endothelium itself is well-known to activate the interferon receptor (IFNAR) in endothelial cells. Here, we discuss the induction of type I IFN secretion and signaling in the endothelium, specifically in the brain microvasculature where endothelial cells participate in the tight blood-brain barrier (BBB). This barrier is targeted during neuroinflammatory disorders such as infection, multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease and traumatic brain injury. We focus on type I IFN induction through the cGAS-STING activation pathway in endothelial cells in context of autoinflammatory type I interferonopathies, inflammation and infection. By comparing the pathophysiology of two separate infectious diseases-cerebral malaria induced by Plasmodium infection and COVID-19 caused by SARS-CoV-2 infection-we emphasize the relevance of type I IFN and STING-induced vasculopathy in organ dysfunction. Investigating the role of endothelial cells as active type I IFN producers and responders in disease pathogenesis could lead to new therapeutic targets. Namely, endothelial dysfunction and brain inflammation may be avoided with strategies that target excessive STING activation in endothelial cells.

325. A Dual GLP-1/GIP Receptor Agonist Is More Effective than Liraglutide in the A53T Mouse Model of Parkinson's Disease.
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a complex syndrome with many elements, such as chronic inflammation, oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, loss of dopaminergic neurons, build-up of alpha-synuclein (α-syn) in cells, and energy depletion in neurons, that drive the disease. We and others have shown that treatment with mimetics of the growth factor glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) can normalize energy utilization, neuronal survival, and dopamine levels and reduce inflammation. Liraglutide is a GLP-1 analogue that recently showed protective effects in phase 2 clinical trials in PD patients and in Alzheimer disease patients. We have developed a novel dual GLP-1/GIP receptor agonist that can cross the blood-brain barrier and showed good protective effects in animal models of PD. Here, we test liraglutide against the dual GLP-1/GIP agonist DA5-CH (KP405) in the A53T tg mouse model of PD which expresses a human-mutated gene of α-synuclein. Drug treatment reduced impairments in three different motor tests, reduced levels of α-syn in the substantia nigra, reduced the inflammation response and proinflammatory cytokine levels in the substantia nigra and striatum, and normalized biomarker levels of autophagy and mitochondrial activities in A53T mice. DA5-CH was superior in almost all parameters measured and therefore may be a better drug treatment for PD than liraglutide.

326. A new perspective on Alzheimer's disease: microRNAs and circular RNAs.
Abstract: microRNAs (miRNAs) play a multifaceted role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). miRNAs regulate several aspects of the disease, such as Aβ metabolism, tau phosphorylation, neuroinflammation, and synaptic function. The dynamic interaction between miRNAs and their target genes depends upon various factors, including the subcellular localization of miRNAs, the relative abundance of miRNAs and target mRNAs, and the affinity of miRNA-mRNA interactions. The miRNAs are released into extracellular fluids and subsequently conveyed to specific target cells through various modes of transportation, such as exosomes. In comparison, circular RNAs (circRNAs) are non-coding RNA (ncRNA) characterized by their covalently closed continuous loops. In contrast to linear RNA, RNA molecules are circularized by forming covalent bonds between the 3'and 5'ends. CircRNA regulates gene expression through interaction with miRNAs at either the transcriptional or post-transcriptional level, even though their precise functions and mechanisms of gene regulation remain to be elucidated. The current stage of research on miRNA expression profiles for diagnostic purposes in complex disorders such as Alzheimer's disease is still in its early phase, primarily due to the intricate nature of the underlying pathological causes, which encompass a diverse range of pathways and targets. Hence, this review comprehensively addressed the alteration of miRNA expression across diverse sources such as peripheral blood, exosome, cerebrospinal fluid, and brain in AD patients. This review also addresses the nascent involvement of circRNAs in the pathogenesis of AD and their prospective utility as biomarkers and therapeutic targets for these conditions in future research.

327. clrDV: a differential variability test for RNA-Seq data based on the skew-normal distribution.
Abstract: Pathological conditions may result in certain genes having expression variance that differs markedly from that of the control. Finding such genes from gene expression data can provide invaluable candidates for therapeutic intervention. Under the dominant paradigm for modeling RNA-Seq gene counts using the negative binomial model, tests of differential variability are challenging to develop, owing to dependence of the variance on the mean.

328. Decoding the role of gut microbiota in Alzheimer's pathogenesis and envisioning future therapeutic avenues.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) emerges as a perturbing neurodegenerative malady, with a profound comprehension of its underlying pathogenic mechanisms continuing to evade our intellectual grasp. Within the intricate tapestry of human health and affliction, the enteric microbial consortium, ensconced within the milieu of the human gastrointestinal tract, assumes a role of cardinal significance. Recent epochs have borne witness to investigations that posit marked divergences in the composition of the gut microbiota between individuals grappling with AD and those favored by robust health. The composite vicissitudes in the configuration of the enteric microbial assembly are posited to choreograph a participatory role in the inception and progression of AD, facilitated by the intricate conduit acknowledged as the gut-brain axis. Notwithstanding, the precise nature of this interlaced relationship remains enshrouded within the recesses of obscurity, poised for an exhaustive revelation. This review embarks upon the endeavor to focalize meticulously upon the mechanistic sway exerted by the enteric microbiota upon AD, plunging profoundly into the execution of interventions that govern the milieu of enteric microorganisms. In doing so, it bestows relevance upon the therapeutic stratagems that form the bedrock of AD's management, all whilst casting a prospective gaze into the horizon of medical advancements.

329. Unraveling the intercellular communication disruption and key pathways in Alzheimer's disease: An integrative study of single-nucleus transcriptomes and genetic association.
Abstract: Background Recently, single-nucleus RNA-seq (snRNA-seq) analyses have revealed important cellular and functional features of Alzheimer's disease (AD), a prevalent neurodegenerative disease. However, our knowledge regarding intercellular communication mediated by dysregulated ligand-receptor (LR) interactions remains very limited in AD brains. Methods We systematically assessed the intercellular communication networks by using a discovery snRNA-seq dataset comprising 69,499 nuclei from 48 human postmortem prefrontal cortex (PFC) samples. We replicated the findings using an independent snRNA-seq dataset of 56,440 nuclei from 18 PFC samples. By integrating genetic signals from AD genome-wide association studies (GWAS) summary statistics and whole genome sequencing (WGS) data, we prioritized AD-associated Gene Ontology (GO) terms containing dysregulated LR interactions. We further explored drug repurposing for the prioritized LR pairs using the Therapeutic Targets Database. Results We identified 316 dysregulated LR interactions across six major cell types in AD PFC, of which 210 pairs were replicated. Among the replicated LR signals, we found globally downregulated communications in astrocytes-to-neurons signaling axis, characterized, for instance, by the downregulation of APOE-related and Calmodulin (CALM)-related LR interactions and their potential regulatory connections to target genes. Pathway analyses revealed 60 GO terms significantly linked to AD, highlighting Biological Processes such as 'amyloid precursor protein processing' and 'ion transmembrane transport', among others. We prioritized several drug repurposing candidates, such as cromoglicate, targeting the identified dysregulated LR pairs. Conclusions Our integrative analysis identified key dysregulated LR interactions in a cell type-specific manner and the associated GO terms in AD, offering novel insights into potential therapeutic targets involved in disrupted cell-cell communication in AD.

330. Cryo-EM structure of Alzheimer's disease tau filaments with PET ligand MK-6240.
Abstract: Positron Emission Tomography (PET) ligands have advanced Alzheimer's disease (AD) diagnosis and treatment. Using autoradiography and cryo-EM, we identified AD brain tissue with elevated tau burden, purified filaments, and determined the structure of second-generation high avidity PET ligand MK-6240 at 2.31 Å resolution, which bound at a 1:1 ratio within the cleft of tau paired-helical filament (PHF), engaging with glutamine 351, lysine K353, and isoleucine 360. This information elucidates the basis of MK-6240 PET in quantifying PHF deposits in AD and may facilitate the structure-based design of superior ligands against tau amyloids.

331. Complexities of cerebral small vessel disease, blood pressure, and dementia relationship: new insights from genetics.
Abstract: There is increasing recognition that vascular disease, which can be treated, is a key contributor to dementia risk. However, the contribution of specific markers of vascular disease is unclear and, as a consequence, optimal prevention strategies remain unclear.

332. Protein restriction slows the development and progression of Alzheimer's disease in mice.
Abstract: Over the last decade, it has become evident that dietary protein is a critical regulator of metabolic health and aging. Low protein diets are associated with healthy aging in humans, and we and others have shown that dietary protein restriction (PR) extends the lifespan and healthspan of mice. Here, we examined the effect of PR on metabolic health and the development and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in the 3xTg mouse model of AD. We found that PR has metabolic benefits for 3xTg mice and non-transgenic controls of both sexes, promoting leanness and glycemic control in 3xTg mice. We found that PR induces sex-specific alterations in circulating metabolites and in the brain lipidome, downregulating sphingolipid subclasses including ceramides, glucosylceramides, and sphingomyelins in 3xTg females. Consumption of a PR diet starting at 6 months of age reduced AD pathology in conjunction with reduced mTORC1 activity, increased autophagy, and had cognitive benefits for 3xTg mice. Finally, PR improved the survival of 3xTg mice. Our results demonstrate that PR slows the progression of AD at molecular and pathological levels, preserves cognition in this mouse model of AD, and suggests that PR or pharmaceutical interventions that mimic the effects of this diet may hold promise as a treatment for AD.

333. Multimodal magnetic resonance imaging on brain structure and function changes in subjective cognitive decline: a mini-review.
Abstract: Subjective cognitive decline (SCD) is the initial stage of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Early identification of SCD and its risk factors is of great importance for targeted interventions and for delaying the onset of AD. We reviewed the relevant literature on structural magnetic resonance imaging (sMRI), diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), and other techniques regarding SCD research in recent years. This study applied sMRI and fMRI techniques to explore abnormal brain structures and functions, which may help provide a basis for SCD diagnosis.

334. Awareness and Perception Toward Alzheimer's Disease Among Residents Living in the Jazan Province, Saudi Arabia: A Cross-Sectional Study.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a growing public health concern, yet misconceptions about the condition are common. This study assessed awareness and social perceptions of AD in Jazan.

335. Liraglutide and learning.
Abstract: Abstract not available for PMID: 37789197

336. Friends and Foes in Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a disabling neurodegenerative disease. The prognosis is poor and currently there are no proven effective therapies. Most likely, the etiology is related to cerebral inflammatory processes that cause neuronal damage, resulting in dysfunction and apoptosis of nerve cells. Pathogens that evoke a neuroinflammatory response, collectively activate astrocytes and microglia, which contributes to the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines. This leads to the deposit of clustered fragments of beta-amyloid and misfolded tau proteins which do not elicit an adequate immune reaction. Apart from the function of astrocytes and microglia, molecular entities such as TREM2, SYK, C22 and C33 play a role in the physiopathology of AD. Furthermore, bacteria and viruses may trigger an overactive inflammatory response in the brain. Pathogens like Heliobacter pylori, Chlamydia pneumonia and Porphyromonas gingivalis (known for low-grade infection in the oral cavity) can release gingipains, which are enzymes that can damage and destroy neurons. Chronic infection with Borrelia burgdorferi (the causative agent of Lyme disease) can co-localize with tau-tangles and amyloid deposits. As for viral infections, HSV1, cytomegalovirus and Epstein-Barr virus can play a role in the pathogenesis of AD. Present investigations have resulted in the development of antibodies that can clear the brain of beta-amyloid plaques. Trials with humanized aducanumab, lecanomab and donanemab revealed limited success in AD patients. However, AD should be considered as a continuum in which the initial preclinical phase may take 10 or even 20 years. It is generally thought that this phase offers a window for efficacious treatment. Therefore, research is also focused on the identification of biomarkers for early AD detection. In this respect, the plasma measurement of neurofilament light chain in patients treated with hydromethylthionine mesylate may well open a new way to prevent the formation of tau tangles and represents the first treatment for AD at its roots.

337. Antiepileptic Drugs as Potential Dementia Prophylactics Following Traumatic Brain Injury.
Abstract: Seizures and other forms of neurovolatility are emerging as druggable prodromal mechanisms that link traumatic brain injury (TBI) to the progression of later dementias. TBI neurotrauma has both acute and long-term impacts on health, and TBI is a leading risk factor for dementias, including chronic traumatic encephalopathy and Alzheimer's disease. Treatment of TBI already considers acute management of posttraumatic seizures and epilepsy, and impressive efforts have optimized regimens of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) toward that goal. Here we consider that expanding these management strategies could determine which AED regimens best prevent dementia progression in TBI patients. Challenges with this prophylactic strategy include the potential consequences of prolonged AED treatment and that a large subset of patients are refractory to available AEDs. Addressing these challenges is warranted because the management of seizure activity following TBI offers a rare opportunity to prevent the onset or progression of devastating dementias. Expected final online publication date for the Annual Review of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Volume 64 is January 2024. Please see http://www.annualreviews.org/page/journal/pubdates for revised estimates.

338. Balance and Gait: Associations With Cognitive Impairment and Dementia in Individuals With Down Syndrome.
Abstract: Atypical aging in Down syndrome (DS) is associated with neuropathological characteristics consistent with Alzheimer disease. Gait abnormalities have been shown to be associated with an increased risk of dementia for the general population. The aim of this study was to determine whether gait disorders are associated with worse cognitive performance and dementia in adults with DS.

339. Antioxioxidant and antiapoptotic effects of Thymosin β4 in Aβ-induced SH-SY5Y cells via the 5-HTR1A/ERK axis.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common amnestic cognitive impairment characterised by β-amyloid (Aβ) plaques deposit in the brain of the elderly. AD is a yet incurable disease due to its unknown exact pathogenesis and unavailability of effective remedies in clinical application. Thymosin β4 (Tβ4) is a housekeeping protein that plays important role in cell proliferation, migration and differentiation. It has the ability to protect and repair neurons however it is still unclear involvement in AD. Therefore, the aim of this study is to elucidate the role and mechanism of Tβ4 in mediating the improvement of AD. AD-like cell model was constructed in neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y treated with Aβ. Overexpression of Tβ4 were done using lentivirus infection and downregulation through siRNA transfection. We performed western blot and flow cytometry to study the apoptosis and standard kits to measure the oxidative stress-associated biomarkers. There is significant increased in viability and decreased apoptosis in Tβ4 overexpression group compared to control. Furthermore, overexpression of Tβ4 suppressed the expression of pro-apoptotic markers such as Caspase-3, Caspase-8, and Bax meanwhile upregulated the expression of anti-apoptotic gene Bcl-2. Tβ4 alleviated oxidative damage by reducing MDA, LDH and ROS and increasing SOD and GSH-PX in Aβ-treated SH-SY5Y cells. We found that Tβ4 inhibit ERK/p38 MAPK pathway and intensify the expression of 5-HTR1A. Additionally, we showed that upregulation of 5-HTR1A dampened the Tβ4 to activate ERK signalling. In conclusion, our study revealed the neuroprotective role of Tβ4 in AD which may open up new therapeutic applications in AD treatment.

340. Establishing an online resource to facilitate global collaboration and inclusion of underrepresented populations: Experience from the MJFF Global Genetic Parkinson's Disease Project.
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is the fastest-growing neurodegenerative disorder, currently affecting ~7 million people worldwide. PD is clinically and genetically heterogeneous, with at least 10% of all cases explained by a monogenic cause or strong genetic risk factor. However, the vast majority of our present data on monogenic PD is based on the investigation of patients of European White ancestry, leaving a large knowledge gap on monogenic PD in underrepresented populations. Gene-targeted therapies are being developed at a fast pace and have started entering clinical trials. In light of these developments, building a global network of centers working on monogenic PD, fostering collaborative research, and establishing a clinical trial-ready cohort is imperative. Based on a systematic review of the English literature on monogenic PD and a successful team science approach, we have built up a network of 59 sites worldwide and have collected information on the availability of data, biomaterials, and facilities. To enable access to this resource and to foster collaboration across centers, as well as between academia and industry, we have developed an interactive map and online tool allowing for a quick overview of available resources, along with an option to filter for specific items of interest. This initiative is currently being merged with the Global Parkinson's Genetics Program (GP2), which will attract additional centers with a focus on underrepresented sites. This growing resource and tool will facilitate collaborative research and impact the development and testing of new therapies for monogenic and potentially for idiopathic PD patients.

341. Overcoming the Digital Divide for Older Patients With Respiratory Disease: Focus Group Study.
Abstract: The need for and adoption of eHealth programs are growing worldwide. However, access can be limited among patients with low socioeconomic backgrounds, often resulting in a so-called "digital divide" due to a mismatch between eHealth and target populations that can gain benefit. This digital divide can result in unsuccessful eHealth implementations, which is of critical importance to health care.

342. The gut microbiome: an important role in neurodegenerative diseases and their therapeutic advances.
Abstract: There are complex interactions between the gut and the brain. With increasing research on the relationship between gut microbiota and brain function, accumulated clinical and preclinical evidence suggests that gut microbiota is intimately involved in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases (NDs). Increasingly studies are beginning to focus on the association between gut microbiota and central nervous system (CNS) degenerative pathologies to find potential therapies for these refractory diseases. In this review, we summarize the changes in the gut microbiota in Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and contribute to our understanding of the function of the gut microbiota in NDs and its possible involvement in the pathogenesis. We subsequently discuss therapeutic approaches targeting gut microbial abnormalities in these diseases, including antibiotics, diet, probiotics, and fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT). Furthermore, we summarize some completed and ongoing clinical trials of interventions with gut microbes for NDs, which may provide new ideas for studying NDs.

343. AAIC 2023: Discoveries propel Alzheimer's diagnosis and clinical care.
Abstract: Abstract not available for PMID: 37787497

344. Neuroproteomic mapping of kinases and their substrates downstream of acetylcholine: finding and implications.
Abstract: Since the emergence of the cholinergic hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD), acetylcholine has been viewed as a mediator of learning and memory. Donepezil improves AD-associated learning deficits and memory loss by recovering brain acetylcholine levels. However, it is associated with side effects due to global activation of acetylcholine receptors. Muscarinic acetylcholine receptor M1 (M1R), a key mediator of learning and memory, has been an alternative target. The importance of targeting a specific pathway downstream of M1R has recently been recognized. Elucidating signaling pathways beyond M1R that lead to learning and memory holds important clues for AD therapeutic strategies.

345. Different ratios of Schisandra chinensis and Evodia rutaecarpa combination for treating Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Schisandra chinensis and Evodia rutaecarpa are traditional Chinese herbs that have been used for many years to treat neurodegenerative diseases. In Chinese medicine, multiple herbs are often used in combination to enhance their efficacy, and different combination ratios can produce different therapeutic effects, thus flexibly responding to the needs of various patients. This study aimed to investigate the effects of different ratios of Schisandra and Evodia herbs on learning and memory impairment in rats with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and their specific mechanisms of action. Morris water maze and hematoxylin and eosin (HE) staining experiments were performed to evaluate the effects of different ratios of Schisandra-Evodia on learning memory in AD model rats. Immunohistochemical experiments were performed to investigate the effects of Schisandra-Evodia on the Aβ1-42 and P-Tau proteins, and protein immunoblotting (WB) was performed to determine the expression of key proteins in two pathways, BDNF/TrkB/CREB and GSK-3β/Tau. Our experimental results show that all Schisandra-Evodia groups showed significant neuroprotective effects, improved learning memory impairment, and reduced levels of Aβ1-42 and P-Tau proteins in AD model rats. Schisandra-Evodia upregulated BDNF, P-TrkB/TrkB, and P-CREB/CREB protein expression and downregulated GSK-3β and P-Tau/Tau protein expression. Among the different Schisandra-Evodia ratio groups, the 2:1 group showed the strongest therapeutic effect on AD. Our research results indicate that Schisandra-Evodia can reduce Aβ1-42 and P-Tau protein content by modulating the activity of two pathways, BDNF/TrkB/CREB and GSK-3β/Tau, thus improving neuronal cell damage and cognitive deficits caused by AD. In addition, we found that a Schisandra-Evodia ratio of 2:1 had the most profound therapeutic effect on AD.

346. Breast-to-brain metastasis is exacerbated with chemotherapy through blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier and induces Alzheimer's-like pathology.
Abstract: Control of breast-to-brain metastasis remains an urgent unmet clinical need. While chemotherapies are essential in reducing systemic tumor burden, they have been shown to promote non-brain metastatic invasiveness and drug-driven neurocognitive deficits through the formation of neurofibrillary tangles (NFT), independently. Now, in this study, we investigated the effect of chemotherapy on brain metastatic progression and promoting tumor-mediated NFT. Results show chemotherapies increase brain-barrier permeability and facilitate enhanced tumor infiltration, particularly through the blood-cerebrospinal fluid barrier (BCSFB). This is attributed to increased expression of matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9) which, in turn, mediates loss of Claudin-6 within the choroid plexus cells of the BCSFB. Importantly, increased MMP9 activity in the choroid epithelium following chemotherapy results in cleavage and release of Tau from breast cancer cells. This cleaved Tau forms tumor-derived NFT that further destabilize the BCSFB. Our results underline for the first time the importance of the BCSFB as a vulnerable point of entry for brain-seeking tumor cells post-chemotherapy and indicate that tumor cells themselves contribute to Alzheimer's-like tauopathy.

347. Pterostilbene as a Therapeutic Alternative for Central Nervous System Disorders: A Review of the Current Status and Perspectives.
Abstract: Neurological disorders are diverse, have complex causes, and often result in disability; yet, effective treatments remain scarce. The resveratrol derivative pterostilbene possesses numerous physiological activities that hold promise as a novel therapy for the central nervous system (CNS) disorders. This review aimed to summarize the protective mechanisms of pterostilbene in in vitro and in vivo models of CNS disorders and the pharmacokinetics and safety to assess its possible effects on CNS disorders. Available evidence supports the protective effects of pterostilbene in CNS disorders involving mechanisms such as antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activity, regulation of lipid metabolism and vascular smooth muscle cell proliferation, improvement of synaptic function and neurogenesis, induction of glioma cell cycle arrest, and inhibition of glioma cell migration and invasion. Studies have identified possible molecular targets and pathways for the protective actions of pterostilbene in CNS disorders including the AMPK/STAT3, Akt, NF-κB, MAPK, and ERK signaling pathways. The possible pharmacological effects and molecular pathways of pterostilbene in CNS disorders are critically discussed in this review. Future studies should aim to increase our understanding of pterostilbene in animal models and humans to further evaluate its role in CNS disorders and the detailed mechanisms.

348. Membrane protein chaperone and sodium chloride modulate the kinetics and morphology of amyloid beta aggregation.
Abstract: Protein aggregation is a biological phenomenon caused by the accumulation of misfolded proteins. Amyloid beta (Aβ) peptides are derived from the cleavage of a larger membrane protein molecule and accumulate to form plaques extracellularly. According to the amyloid hypothesis, accumulation of Aβ aggregates in the brain is primarily responsible for the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Therefore, the disassembly of Aβ aggregates may provide opportunities for alleviating or treating AD. Here, we show that the novel protein targeting machinery from chloroplast, chloroplast signal recognition particle 43 (cpSRP43), is an ATP-independent membrane protein chaperone that can both prevent and reverse Aβ aggregation effectively. Using of thioflavin T dye, we obtained the aggregation kinetics of Aβ aggregation and determined that the chaperone prevents Aβ aggregation in a concentration-dependent manner. Size exclusion chromatography and sedimentation assays showed that 10-fold excess of cpSRP43 can keep Aβ in the soluble monomeric form. Electron microscopy showed that the fibril structure was disrupted in the presence of this chaperone. Importantly, cpSRP43 utilizes the binding energy to actively remodel the preformed Aβ aggregates without assistance by a co-chaperone and ATP, emphasizing its unique function among protein chaperones. Moreover, when sodium chloride concentration is higher than 25 mm, the Aβ aggregation rate increases drastically to form tightly associated aggregates and generate more oligomers. Our results demonstrate that the presence of cpSRP43 and low NaCl levels inhibit or retard Aβ peptide aggregation, potentially opening new avenues to strategically develop an effective treatment for AD.

349. Wnt signaling in synaptogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD), recognized as the leading cause of dementia, occupies a prominent position on the list of significant neurodegenerative disorders, representing a significant global health concern with far-reaching implications at both individual and societal levels. The primary symptom of Alzheimer's disease is a decrease in synaptic potency along with synaptic connection loss. Synapses, which act as important linkages between neuronal units within the cerebral region, are critical in signal transduction processes essential to orchestrating cognitive tasks. Synaptic connections act as critical interconnections between neuronal cells inside the cerebral environment, facilitating critical signal transduction processes required for cognitive functions. The confluence of axonal and dendritic filopodial extensions culminates in the creation of intercellular connections, coordinated by various signals and molecular mechanisms. The progression of synaptic maturation and plasticity is a critical determinant in maintaining mental well-being, and abnormalities in these processes have been linked to the development of neurodegenerative diseases. Wnt signaling pathways are important to the orchestration of synapse development. This review examines the complicated interplay between Wnt signaling and dendritic filopodia, including an examination of the regulatory complexities and molecular machinations involved in synaptogenesis progression. Then, these findings are contextualized within the context of AD pathology, allowing for the consideration of prospective therapeutic approaches based on the findings and development of novel avenues for future scientific research.

350. Gold and silver nanoparticles in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diagnostics and treatments.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative diseases (NDs) impose substantial medical and public health burdens on people worldwide and represent one of the major threats to human health. The prevalence of these age-dependent disorders is dramatically increasing over time, a process intrinsically related to a constantly rising percentage of the elderly population in recent years. Among all the NDs, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's are considered the most debilitating as they cause memory and cognitive loss, as well as severely affecting basic physiological conditions such as the ability to move, speak, and breathe. There is an extreme need for new and more effective therapies to counteract these devastating diseases, as the available treatments are only able to slow down the pathogenic process without really stopping or resolving it. This review aims to elucidate the current nanotechnology-based tools representing a future hope for NDs treatment. Noble metal nano-systems, that is, gold and silver nanoparticles (NPs), have indeed unique physicochemical characteristics enabling them to deliver any pharmacological treatment in a more effective way within the central nervous system. This can potentially make NPs a new hope for reversing the actual therapeutic strategy based on slowing down an irreversible process into a more effective and permanent treatment.

351. Basic information about memantine and its treatment of Alzheimer's disease and other clinical applications.
Abstract: Memantine is a noncompetitive moderate-affinity strong voltage-dependent N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist. It has been used to treat Alzheimer's disease (AD) since 1989. In 2018, it became the second most commonly used drug for the treatment of dementia in the world. AD is nonreversible, and memantine can only relieve the symptoms of AD but not cure it. Over the past half-century, memantine's research and clinical application have been extensively developed. In this review, the basic composition of memantine, the mechanism and limitations of memantine in the treatment of AD, memantine combination therapy, comparison of memantine with other drugs for AD, and clinical studies of memantine in other diseases are reviewed to provide a valuable reference for further research and application of memantine for the treatment of AD.

352. The more the neuroticism, the more the susceptibility to Alzheimer's disease. What inspiration can neuroticism provide?
Abstract: Study of neuroticism can provide important insights. Before the inclusion of neuroticism in the study of Alzheimer's disease (AD), clinical and scientific researchers used relatively fixed models to treat AD, such as prescribing fixed doses of drugs and fixed research strategies. However, taking neuroticism into account affects drug use, the direction of scientific research, and even the mental health of the population, which translates into more immediate economic benefits.

353. Research progress in clinical trials of stem cell therapy for stroke and neurodegenerative diseases.
Abstract: The incidence of stroke and neurodegenerative diseases is gradually increasing in modern society, but there is still no treatment that is effective enough. Stem cells are cells that can reproduce (self-renew) and differentiate into the body, which have shown significance in basic research, while doctors have also taken them into clinical trials to determine their efficacy and safety. Existing clinical trials mainly include middle-aged and elderly patients with stroke or Parkinson's disease (mostly 40-80 years old), mainly involving injection of mesenchymal stem cells and bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells through the veins and the putamen, with a dosage of mostly 106-108 cells. The neural and motor functions of the patients were restored after stem cell therapy, and the safety was found to be good during the follow-up period of 3 months to 5 years. Here, we review all clinical trials and the latest advances in stroke, Alzheimer's disease, and Parkinson's disease, with the hope that stem cell therapy will be used in the clinic in the future to achieve effective treatment rates and benefit patients.

354. Effect of sulfonamide derivatives of phenylglycine on scopolamine-induced amnesia in rats.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disease responsible for dementia and other neuropsychiatric symptoms. In the present study, compounds 30 and 33, developed earlier in our laboratory as selective butyrylcholinesterase inhibitors, were tested against scopolamine-induced amnesia to evaluate their pharmacodynamic effect. The efficacy of the compounds was determined by behavioral experiments using the Y-maze and the Barnes maze and neurochemical testing. Both compounds reduced the effect of scopolamine treatment in the behavioral tasks at a dose of 20 mg/kg. The results of the neurochemical experiment indicated a reduction in cholinesterase activity in the prefrontal cortex and the hippocampus. The levels of antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase and catalase were restored compared to the scopolamine-treated groups. The docking study on rat butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) indicated tight binding, with free energies of -9.66 and -10.23 kcal/mol for compounds 30 and 33, respectively. The two aromatic amide derivatives of 2-phenyl-2-(phenylsulfonamido) acetic acid produced stable complexes with rat BChE in the molecular dynamics investigation.

355. The emerging mechanism behind viral infections and extracellular vesicles hypotheses leading to neuroinflammation and Alzheimer's disease pathology.
Abstract: Despite decades of repeated and intense research, the etiology of sudden Alzheimer's disease (AD) symptoms is still unclear. AD progressive pathology mainly involves neuron damage, depositions of amyloid-beta (Aβ), and hyperphosphorylated tau protein. All these defects are manifested by exaggerated cytokine storm and neuroinflammation leading to irreversible brain damage in the long term. Despite the numerous risks and drawbacks associated with AD, it is believed that there is a hidden unknown causative and predisposing factors for AD. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are small vesicles released by cells as a type of intercellular communication. Several pieces of evidence support the inclusion of viral components within EVs facilitating their penetration into the blood-brain barrier leading to neuroinflammation. In light of the SARS-CoV-19 pandemic and its related neurological complications, it is mandatory to highlight the possibility and viability of viral infections such as varicella-zoster virus (VZV) and herpes simplex virus (HSV) on the onset of AD. Herein, the author is investigating the potential role of VZV and HSV along with highlighting the suggested route of pathogenesis entry resulting in AD manifestations. Additionally, this review aims to summarize the role of EVs in mediating the central nervous system viral infections leading to AD.

356. Targeting immunometabolic pathways for combination therapy in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: The recent success of disease-modifying anti-amyloid monoclonal antibodies in slowing Alzheimer's disease (AD) symptoms has been an exciting step forward for the field. Despite successfully clearing amyloid from the brain, however, only modest symptomatic improvement has been demonstrated, and treatment-related side effects such as amyloid-related imaging abnormalities (ARIA) limit use for some. These limitations suggest that fully efficacious AD treatment may require combination therapy regimens, as are used in other complex disorders such as cancer and HIV. One reasonable strategy may be to use agents that address the biological changes that predict future amyloid accumulation, or accompany amyloid accumulation in preclinical disease states. Immunometabolic pathways, including the insulin signaling pathway, are dysregulated at the earliest stages of AD, concomitant with amyloid accumulation. It is plausible that agents that target these pathways may work synergistically with anti-amyloid therapies to halt AD progression. Insulin signaling is integrally involved in innate and adaptive immune systems, with pleiotropic effects that moderate pro- and anti-inflammatory responses. Metabolic modulators that enhance insulin sensitivity and function, such as GLP-1 receptor agonists, SGLT2 inhibitors, and insulin itself have been shown to improve immune function and reduce chronic inflammation. Additional effects of insulin and metabolic modulators demonstrated in preclinical and clinical studies of AD include increased clearance of amyloid-β, slowed tau progression, improved vascular function and lipid metabolism, reduced synaptotoxicity, and improved cognitive and functional outcomes. A large number of compounds that treat metabolic disorders have been extensively characterized with respect to mechanism of action and safety, and thus are readily available to be repurposed for combination therapy protocols. Determining the most successful combination regimens of these agents together with disease-modifying therapies, and the appropriate timing of treatment, are promising next steps in the quest to treat and prevent AD.

357. Higher angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) levels in the brain of individuals with Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Cognitive decline due to Alzheimer's disease (AD) is frequent in the geriatric population, which has been disproportionately affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. In this study, we investigated the levels of angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2), a regulator of the renin-angiotensin system and the main entry receptor of SARS-CoV-2 in host cells, in postmortem parietal cortex samples from two independent AD cohorts, totalling 142 persons. Higher concentrations of ACE2 protein (p < 0.01) and mRNA (p < 0.01) were found in individuals with a neuropathological diagnosis of AD compared to age-matched healthy control subjects. Brain levels of soluble ACE2 were inversely associated with cognitive scores (p = 0.02) and markers of pericytes (PDGFRβ, p = 0.02 and ANPEP, p = 0.007), but positively correlated with concentrations of soluble amyloid-β peptides (Aβ) (p = 0.01) and insoluble phospho-tau (S396/404, p = 0.002). However, no significant differences in ACE2 were observed in the 3xTg-AD mouse model of tau and Aβ neuropathology. Results from immunofluorescence and Western blots showed that ACE2 protein is predominantly localized in microvessels in the mouse brain whereas it is more frequently found in neurons in the human brain. The present data suggest that higher levels of soluble ACE2 in the human brain may contribute to AD, but their role in CNS infection by SARS-CoV-2 remains unclear.

358. Clinical trials of new drugs for Alzheimer disease: a 2020-2023 update.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia, presenting a significant unmet medical need worldwide. The pathogenesis of AD involves various pathophysiological events, including the accumulation of amyloid and tau, neuro-inflammation, and neuronal injury. Clinical trials focusing on new drugs for AD were documented in 2020, but subsequent developments have emerged since then. Notably, the US-FDA has approved Aducanumab and Lecanemab, both antibodies targeting amyloid, marking the end of a nearly two-decade period without new AD drugs. In this comprehensive report, we review all trials listed in clinicaltrials.gov, elucidating their underlying mechanisms and study designs. Ongoing clinical trials are investigating numerous promising new drugs for AD. The main trends in these trials involve pathophysiology-based, disease-modifying therapies and the recruitment of participants in earlier stages of the disease. These trends underscore the significance of conducting fundamental research on pathophysiology, prevention, and intervention prior to the occurrence of brain damage caused by AD.

359. Accuracy of plasma Aβ40, Aβ42, and p-tau181 to detect CSF Alzheimer's pathological changes in cognitively unimpaired subjects using the Lumipulse automated platform.
Abstract: The arrival of new disease-modifying treatments for Alzheimer's disease (AD) requires the identification of subjects at risk in a simple, inexpensive, and non-invasive way. With tools allowing an adequate screening, it would be possible to optimize the use of these treatments. Plasma markers of AD are very promising, but it is necessary to prove that alterations in their levels are related to alterations in gold standard markers such as cerebrospinal fluid or PET imaging. With this research, we want to evaluate the performance of plasma Aβ40, Aβ42, and p-tau181 to detect the pathological changes in CSF using the automated Lumipulse platform.

360. The association of herpes zoster and influenza vaccinations with the risk of developing dementia: a population-based cohort study within the UK Clinical Practice Research Datalink.
Abstract: Dementia affects ability to remember, think, or make decisions that interfere with doing everyday activities. There is no cure, therefore any prevention or delay of the onset is of importance. This study aims to investigate the association between zoster and influenza vaccinations and the risk of developing dementia.

361. Hawaiian native herb Mamaki prevents dementia by ameliorating neuropathology and repairing neurons in four different mouse models of neurodegenerative diseases.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal dementia, and dementia with Lewy bodies are age-related disorders and the main cause of dementia. They are characterized by the cerebral accumulation of Aβ, tau, α-synuclein, and TDP-43. Because the accumulation begins decades before disease onset, treatment should be started in the preclinical stage. Such intervention would be long-lasting, and therefore, prophylactic agents should be safe, non-invasively taken by the patients, and inexpensive. In addition, the agents should be broadly effective against etiologic proteins and capable of repairing neurons damaged by toxic oligomers. These requirements are difficult to meet with single-ingredient pharmaceuticals but may be feasible by taking proper diets composed of multiple ingredients. As a source of such diets, we focused on the Hawaiian native herb Mamaki. From its dried leaves and fruits, we made three preparations: hot water extract of the leaves, non-extracted simple crush powder of the leaves, and simple crush powder of the fruits, and examined their effects on the cognitive function and neuropathologies in four different mouse models of neurodegenerative dementia. Hot water extract of the leaves attenuated neuropathologies, restored synaptophysin levels, suppressed microglial activation, and improved memory when orally administered for 1 month. Simply crushed leaf powder showed a higher efficacy, but simply crushed fruit powder displayed the strongest effects. Moreover, the fruit powder significantly enhanced the levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor expression and neurogenesis, indicating its ability to repair neurons. These results suggest that crushed Mamaki leaves and fruits are promising sources of dementia-preventive diets.

362. Correction: Crif1 deficiency in dopamine neurons triggers early-onset parkinsonism.
Abstract: Abstract not available for PMID: 37783789

363. Myeloid cell deficiency of the inflammatory transcription factor Stat4 protects long-term synaptic plasticity from the effects of a high-fat, high-cholesterol diet.
Abstract: Neuroinflammation is associated with neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's. The cytokine interleukin-12 activates signal transducer and activator of transcription 4 (Stat4), and consumption of a high-fat, high-cholesterol diet (HFD-C) and Stat4 activity are associated with inflammation, atherosclerosis, and a diabetic metabolic phenotype. In studies of in vitro hippocampal slices from control Stat4fl/flLdlr-/- mice fed a HFD-C diabetogenic diet, we show that Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses exhibited larger reductions in activity-dependent, long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission, compared to mice fed a standard diet. Glucose tolerance and insulin sensitivity shifts produced by HFD-C diet were reduced in Stat4ΔLysMLdlr-/- mice compared to Stat4fl/flLdlr-/- controls. Stat4ΔLysMLdlr-/- mice, which lack Stat4 under control of the LysMCre promoter, were resistant to HFD-C induced impairments in LTP. In contrast, Schaffer collateral-CA1 synapses in Stat4ΔLysMLdlr-/- mice fed the HFD-C diet showed larger LTP than control Stat4fl/flLdlr-/- mice. Expression of a number of neuroinflammatory and synaptic plasticity genes was reduced by HFD-C diet in control mice, and less affected by HFD-C diet in Stat4ΔLysMLdlr-/- mice. These data suggest that suppression of Stat4 activation may protect against effects of Western diet on cognition, type 2 diabetes, and reduce risk of Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders associated with neuroinflammation.

364. Stress induced exacerbation of Alzheimer's disease brain pathology is thwarted by co-administration of nanowired cerebrolysin and monoclonal amyloid beta peptide antibodies with serotonin 5-HT6 receptor antagonist SB-399885.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease is one of the devastating neurodegenerative diseases affecting mankind worldwide with advancing age mainly above 65 years and above causing great misery of life. About more than 7 millions are affected with Alzheimer's disease in America in 2023 resulting in huge burden on health care system and care givers and support for the family. However, no suitable therapeutic measures are available at the moment to enhance quality of life to these patients. Development of Alzheimer's disease may reflect the stress burden of whole life inculcating the disease processes of these neurodegenerative disorders of the central nervous system. Thus, new strategies using nanodelivery of suitable drug therapy including antibodies are needed in exploring neuroprotection in Alzheimer's disease brain pathology. In this chapter role of stress in exacerbating Alzheimer's disease brain pathology is explored and treatment strategies are examined using nanotechnology based on our own investigation. Our observations clearly show that restraint stress significantly exacerbate Alzheimer's disease brain pathology and nanodelivery of a multimodal drug cerebrolysin together with monoclonal antibodies (mAb) to amyloid beta peptide (AβP) together with a serotonin 5-HT6 receptor antagonist SB399885 significantly thwarted Alzheimer's disease brain pathology exacerbated by restraint stress, not reported earlier. The possible mechanisms and future clinical significance is discussed.

365. Effects of curcumin nanodelivery on schizophrenia and glioblastoma.
Abstract: Curcumin is a natural polyphenol, which has a variety of pharmacological activities, including, antineoplastic, antioxidative and neuroprotective effects. Recent studies provided evidence for the bioactive role of curcumin in the prevention and treatment of various central nervous system (CNS)-related diseases including Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, Schizophrenia disease and glioma neoplasia. Schizophrenia is a disabling psychiatric disorder related with an aberrant functional coupling between hippocampus and prefrontal cortex that might be crucial for cognitive dysfunction. Animal studies have lent support to the hypothesis that curcumin could improve cognitive functioning and enhance cell proliferation of dentate gyrus. In relation to brain tumors, specifically gliomas, the antineoplastic action of curcumin is based on the inhibition of cell growth promoting apoptosis or autophagy and preventing angiogenesis. However, one of the main impediments for the application of curcumin to patients is its low bioavailability. In intracranial lesions, curcumin has problems to cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Currently nano-based drug delivery systems are opening a new horizon to tackle this problem. The bioavailability and effective release of curcumin can be made possible in the form of nanocurcumin. This nanoformulation preserves the properties of curcumin and makes it reach tissues with pathology. This review try to study the beneficial effects of the curcumin nanodelivery in central nervous pathologies such us schizophrenia and glioma disease.

366. Sleep deprivation enhances amyloid beta peptide, p-tau and serotonin in the brain: Neuroprotective effects of nanowired delivery of cerebrolysin with monoclonal antibodies to amyloid beta peptide, p-tau and serotonin.
Abstract: Sleep deprivation is quite frequent in military during combat, intelligence gathering or peacekeeping operations. Even one night of sleep deprivation leads to accumulation of amyloid beta peptide burden that would lead to precipitation of Alzheimer's disease over the years. Thus, efforts are needed to slow down or neutralize accumulation of amyloid beta peptide (AβP) and associated Alzheimer's disease brain pathology including phosphorylated tau (p-tau) within the brain fluid environment. Sleep deprivation also alters serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine) metabolism in the brain microenvironment and impair upregulation of several neurotrophic factors. Thus, blockade or neutralization of AβP, p-tau and serotonin in sleep deprivation may attenuate brain pathology. In this investigation this hypothesis is examined using nanodelivery of cerebrolysin- a balanced composition of several neurotrophic factors and active peptide fragments together with monoclonal antibodies against AβP, p-tau and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT). Our observations suggest that sleep deprivation induced pathophysiology is significantly reduced following nanodelivery of cerebrolysin together with monoclonal antibodies to AβP, p-tau and 5-HT, not reported earlier.

367. Deep grading for MRI-based differential diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and Frontotemporal dementia.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease and Frontotemporal dementia are common forms of neurodegenerative dementia. Behavioral alterations and cognitive impairments are found in the clinical courses of both diseases, and their differential diagnosis can sometimes pose challenges for physicians. Therefore, an accurate tool dedicated to this diagnostic challenge can be valuable in clinical practice. However, current structural imaging methods mainly focus on the detection of each disease but rarely on their differential diagnosis. In this paper, we propose a deep learning-based approach for both disease detection and differential diagnosis. We suggest utilizing two types of biomarkers for this application: structure grading and structure atrophy. First, we propose to train a large ensemble of 3D U-Nets to locally determine the anatomical patterns of healthy people, patients with Alzheimer's disease and patients with Frontotemporal dementia using structural MRI as input. The output of the ensemble is a 2-channel disease's coordinate map, which can be transformed into a 3D grading map that is easily interpretable for clinicians. This 2-channel disease's coordinate map is coupled with a multi-layer perceptron classifier for different classification tasks. Second, we propose to combine our deep learning framework with a traditional machine learning strategy based on volume to improve the model discriminative capacity and robustness. After both cross-validation and external validation, our experiments, based on 3319 MRIs, demonstrated that our method produces competitive results compared to state-of-the-art methods for both disease detection and differential diagnosis.

368. Real-world prediction of preclinical Alzheimer's disease with a deep generative model.
Abstract: Amyloid positivity is an early indicator of Alzheimer's disease and is necessary to determine the disease. In this study, a deep generative model is utilized to predict the amyloid positivity of cognitively normal individuals using proxy measures, such as structural MRI scans, demographic variables, and cognitive scores, instead of invasive direct measurements. Through its remarkable efficacy in handling imperfect datasets caused by missing data or labels, and imbalanced classes, the model outperforms previous studies and widely used machine learning approaches with an AUROC of 0.8609. Furthermore, this study illuminates the model's adaptability to diverse clinical scenarios, even when feature sets or diagnostic criteria differ from the training data. We identify the brain regions and variables that contribute most to classification, including the lateral occipital lobes, posterior temporal lobe, and APOE ϵ4 allele. Taking advantage of deep generative models, our approach can not only provide inexpensive, non-invasive, and accurate diagnostics for preclinical Alzheimer's disease, but also meet real-world requirements for clinical translation of a deep learning model, including transferability and interpretability.

369. Reader Response: Estrogen Receptor Genes, Cognitive Decline, and Alzheimer Disease.
Abstract: Abstract not available for PMID: 37783505

370. Author Response: Estrogen Receptor Genes, Cognitive Decline, and Alzheimer Disease.
Abstract: Abstract not available for PMID: 37783504

371. The role of N-methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors in Alzheimer's disease: From pathophysiology to therapeutic approaches.
Abstract: N-Methyl-D-aspartate glutamate receptors (NMDARs) are involved in multiple physiopathological processes, including synaptic plasticity, neuronal network activities, excitotoxic events, and cognitive impairment. Abnormalities in NMDARs can initiate a cascade of pathological events, notably in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and even other neuropsychiatric disorders. The subunit composition of NMDARs is plastic, giving rise to a diverse array of receptor subtypes. While they are primarily found in neurons, NMDAR complexes, comprising both traditional and atypical subunits, are also present in non-neuronal cells, influencing the functions of various peripheral tissues. Furthermore, protein-protein interactions within NMDAR complexes has been linked with Aβ accumulation, tau phosphorylation, neuroinflammation, and mitochondrial dysfunction, all of which potentially served as an obligatory relay of cognitive impairment. Nonetheless, the precise mechanistic link remains to be fully elucidated. In this review, we provided an in-depth analysis of the structure and function of NMDAR, investigated their interactions with various pathogenic proteins, discussed the current landscape of NMDAR-based therapeutics, and highlighted the remaining challenges during drug development.

372. Memory impairment was ameliorated by corticolimbic microinjections of arachidonylcyclopropylamide (ACPA) and miRNA-regulated lentiviral particles in a streptozotocin-induced Alzheimer's rat model.
Abstract: The present study aimed to investigate the effect of corticolimbic cannabinoid CB1 receptors activity on memory impairment in the intracerebroventricular (ICV)-streptozotocin (STZ) animal model of Alzheimer's like-disease. This study also assessed whether the corticolimbic overexpression of miRNA-137 or -let-7a could increase the endocannabinoids by inhibiting the monoglyceride lipase (MAGL) to ameliorate STZ response. The results showed that ICV microinjection of STZ (3 mg/kg/10 μl) impaired passive avoidance memory retrieval. The chronic microinjection of arachidonylcyclopropylamide (ACPA; 10 ng/0.5 μl), a selective cannabinoid CB1 receptor agonist, into the hippocampal CA1 region, the central amygdala (CeA) or the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) ameliorated the amnesic effect of ICV-STZ. Intra-CA1 or -CeA microinjection of ACPA alone did not affect memory retrieval, while its microinjection into the mPFC impaired memory formation. Based on bioinformatics analysis and verification of the MAGL gene, miRNA-137 and -let-7a were chosen to target the expression levels of MAGL in the corticolimbic regions. The chronic corticolimbic microinjection of lentiviral particles containing miRNA-137 or -let-7a ameliorated ICV-STZ-induced memory impairment. The high transfection efficiency was determined for each virus using comparing fluorescent and conventional vision. Corticolimbic overexpression of miRNA-137 or -let-7a decreased the MAGL gene expression that encodes the MAGL enzyme to increase the endocannabinoids. Thus, among the molecular mechanisms and signaling pathways involved in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD), it is worth mentioning the role of endocannabinoids in the corticolimbic regions. CB1 receptor agonists, miRNA-137 or -let-7a, may be potential therapeutic targets against cognitive decline in AD.

373. Frentizole derivatives with mTOR inhibiting and senomorphic properties.
Abstract: Frentizole is immunosuppressive drug with low acute toxicity and lifespan-prolonging effect. Recently, frentizole´s potential to disrupt toxic amyloid β (Aβ) - Aβ-binding alcohol dehydrogenase (ABAD) interaction in mitochondria in Alzheimer´s brains has been revealed. Another broadly studied drug with anti-aging and immunosuppressive properties is an mTOR inhibitor - rapamycin. Since we do not yet precisely know what is behind the lifespan-prolonging effect of rapamycin and frentizole, whether it is the ability to inhibit the mTOR signaling pathway, reduction in mitochondrial toxicity, immunosuppressive effect, or a combination of all of them, we have decided within our previous work to dock the entire in-house library of almost 240 Aβ-ABAD modulators into the FKBP-rapamycin-binding (FRB) domain of mTOR in order to interlink mTOR-centric and mitochondrial free radical-centric theories of aging and thus to increase the chances of success. Based on the results of the docking study, molecular dynamic simulation and MM-PBSA calculations, we have selected nine frentizole-like compounds (1 - 9). Subsequently, we have determined their real physical-chemical properties (logP, logD, pKa and solubility in water and buffer), cytotoxic/cytostatic, mTOR inhibitory, and in vitro anti-senescence (senolytic and senomorphic) effects. Finally, the three best candidates (4, 8, and 9) have been forwarded for in vivo safety studies to assess their acute toxicity and pharmacokinetic properties. Based on obtained results, only compound 4 demonstrated the best results within in vitro testing, the ability to cross the blood-brain barrier and the lowest acute toxicity (LD50 in male mice 559 mg/kg; LD50 in female mice 575 mg/kg).

374. Effects of music therapy on cognition, quality of life, and neuropsychiatric symptoms of patients with dementia: A systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.
Abstract: Dementia is a major cause of disability and dependency. Pharmacological interventions are commonly provided to patients with dementia to delay the deterioration of cognitive functions but cannot alter the course of disease. Nonpharmacological interventions are now attracting increasing scholarly interest. In accordance with the Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses statement, we aim to assess the effectiveness of music-based therapies on the cognition, quality of life (QoL), and neuropsychiatric symptoms of patients with dementia through a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials (RCTs). The PubMed, Embase, and Cochrane databases were searched for reports of RCTs examining the effectiveness of music-based therapies for dementia published as of April 2023. A total of 674 articles were screened, and 22 trials from 21 studies (1780 patients) met the eligibility criteria. In 15 trials, music-based therapies significantly improved the cognition of patients with dementia compared with non-music therapies. In 11 trials, music-based therapies also significantly improved the QoL of patients with dementia compared with non-music therapies. In six trials, music-based therapies significantly improved patients' neuropsychiatric symptoms compared with non-music therapies. In conclusion, music-based therapy is recognized as a safe and effective alternative approach for patients with dementia.

375. Vascular senescence and leak are features of the early breakdown of the blood-brain barrier in Alzheimer's disease models.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related disease, with loss of integrity of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) being an early feature. Cellular senescence is one of the reported nine hallmarks of aging. Here, we show for the first time the presence of senescent cells in the vasculature in AD patients and mouse models of AD. Senescent endothelial cells and pericytes are present in APP/PS1 transgenic mice but not in wild-type littermates at the time of amyloid deposition. In vitro, senescent endothelial cells display altered VE-cadherin expression and loss of cell junction formation and increased permeability. Consistent with this, senescent endothelial cells in APP/PS1 mice are present at areas of vascular leak that have decreased claudin-5 and VE-cadherin expression confirming BBB breakdown. Furthermore, single cell sequencing of endothelial cells from APP/PS1 transgenic mice confirms that adhesion molecule pathways are among the most highly altered pathways in these cells. At the pre-plaque stage, the vasculature shows significant signs of breakdown, with a general loss of VE-cadherin, leakage within the microcirculation, and obvious pericyte perturbation. Although senescent vascular cells were not directly observed at sites of vascular leak, senescent cells were close to the leak area. Thus, we would suggest in AD that there is a progressive induction of senescence in constituents of the neurovascular unit contributing to an increasing loss of vascular integrity. Targeting the vasculature early in AD, either with senolytics or with drugs that improve the integrity of the BBB may be valid therapeutic strategies.

376. Metformin activates AMPK and mTOR to Inhibit RANKL-stimulated osteoclast formation.
Abstract: Metformin is a medication used to treat type 2 diabetes by inhibiting hepatic glucose production through adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) activation. Autophagy is closely related to the homeostasis and stress mechanisms of the body. In recent years, much research has arisen on therapeutic methods utilizing autophagy mechanisms to treat diagnoses such as metabolic diseases, tumors, and Alzheimer's disease. This study thus aimed to investigate the effects of metformin treatment on the differentiation of osteoclasts and changes in AMPK mechanisms, which play an important role in regulating energy homeostasis, and mTOR, a highly conserved kinase that regulates autophagy.

377. Dose-dependent binding behavior of anthraquinone derivative purpurin interacting with tau-derived peptide protofibril.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease is hallmarked by microtubule-associated protein tau tangles and amyloid-β plaques. The β-structure propensity of tau inclusions is closely related to the hexapeptide motif VQIVYK (termed PHF6), and disruption of this motif prevents tau aggregation. Small-molecule inhibitors are considered a promising therapeutic strategy, but the molecular mechanisms underlying the correlation between dose and inhibitory effects are still unclear. In this work, we investigated the dose-induced influence of purpurin, an anthraquinone derivative, on the structural stability of the PHF6 fibrillar nucleus by performing microsecond all-atom molecular dynamics simulations in explicit water. The stability of PHF6 protofibrils of different sizes was first examined, and it was found that the structural stability of fibrillar oligomers increases with oligomer size, and that the octamer is the minimal stable nucleus for fibril formation. When purpurin molecules were added to the protofibril octamer at a low purpurin/peptide ratio, they bound to the octamer with different coupling states, and the different states may transition to each of the other states through an uncoupling state or directly through a short-time transition. With increasing purpurin/peptide ratio, purpurins tend to self-aggregate rather than bind to the protein surface. Interestingly, the contacts between individual purpurins and the octamer as a function of the purpurin number show a power-law behavior, which may serve as a useful indicator to reflect the binding efficiency of ligands to proteins in drug screening. The interaction analysis reveals that purpurin prefers to bind to the hydrophilic and aromatic Tyr and has the lowest probability with the hydrophobic Val located in the middle of PHF6. Aromatic stacking plays a key role in the octamer-purpurin interaction, in which the three aromatic rings of purpurin have different contributions. In addition, purpurin shows a remarkable disruptive effect on the protofibril octamer when the molar ratio of purpurin to peptide is 1 : 2; above this ratio, the binding mode and disruption effect of purpurin do not change significantly. Our work provides a detailed picture of the dynamics and interactions of purpurin binding to the PHF6 protofibril and expands the understanding of the dose-induced inhibitory mechanism.

378. Cross-Sectional Analysis of Periodontal Disease and Cognitive Impairment Conducted in a Memory Clinic: The Pearl Study.
Abstract: Periodontal disease (PeD) is a risk factor of Alzheimer's disease and is associated with cognitive decline in older adults. However, the relationships between subitems of neuropsychological tests and PeD have not been fully clarified.

379. A Metabolomics Analysis of a Novel Phenotype of Older Adults at Higher Risk of Dementia.
Abstract: Older adults presenting with dual-decline in cognition and walking speed face a 6-fold higher risk for dementia compared with those showing no decline. We hypothesized that the metabolomics profile of dual-decliners would be unique even before they show signs of decline in cognition and gait speed.

380. A Mediterranean Diet and Walking Intervention to Reduce Cognitive Decline and Dementia Risk in Independently Living Older Australians: The MedWalk Randomized Controlled Trial Experimental Protocol, Including COVID-19 Related Modifications and Baseline Characteristics.
Abstract: Several clinical trials have examined diet and physical activity lifestyle changes as mitigation strategies for risk factors linked to cognitive decline and dementias such as Alzheimer's disease. However, the ability to modify these behaviors longer term, to impact cognitive health has remained elusive.

381. Racial/Ethnic Disparities in Misidentification of Dementia in Medicare Claims: Results from the Washington Heights-Inwood Columbia Aging Project.
Abstract: Misidentification of dementia in Medicare claims is quite common.

382. Lithium, a Treatment Option for Alzheimer's Disease? A Review of Existing Evidence and Discussion on Future Perspectives.
Abstract: After over 50 years of use, lithium-salts remain the first-line therapy for the management of bipolar disorder. Throughout this period, the potential for lithium salts has been extensively studied and numerous data favor its use in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). We reviewed existing evidence gathered from clinical case reports and studies on the effect of lithium on neuropsychological symptoms of AD and as a disease-modifying treatment acting on cognitive symptoms. The review summarizes the molecular pathways, involving GSK-3β inhibition and neuroprotection, through which lithium is proposed to exert its effect. Limitations to its current use in AD are discussed and future perspectives as a potential treatment option for AD are considered in regard to ongoing clinical trials using different forms of lithium.

383. Improving Clinical Trials of Antioxidants in Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Maintaining diversity in drug development in research into Alzheimer's disease (AD) is necessary to avoid over-reliance on targeting AD neuropathology. Treatments that reduce or prevent the generation of oxidative stress, frequently cited for its causal role in the aging process and AD, could be useful in at-risk populations or diagnosed AD patients. However, in this review, it is argued that clinical research into antioxidants in AD could provide more useful feedback as to the therapeutic value of the oxidative stress theory of AD. Improving comparability between randomized controlled trials (RCTs) is vital from a waste-reduction and priority-setting point of view for AD clinical research. For as well as attempting to improve meaningful outcomes for patients, RCTs of antioxidants in AD should strive to maximize the extraction of clinically useful information and actionable feedback from trial outcomes. Solutions to maximize information flow from RCTs of antioxidants in AD are offered here in the form of checklist questions to improve ongoing and future trials centered around the following dimensions: adhesion to reporting guidelines like CONSORT, biomarker enrichment, simple tests of treatment, and innovative trial design.

384. Association Between Hippocampal Volume and African Neuropsychology Memory Tests in Adult Individuals with Probable Alzheimer's Disease in Democratic Republic of Congo.
Abstract: Western studies indicate potential associations between hippocampal volume and memory in the trajectory of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, limited availability of neuroimaging technology and neuropsychological tests appropriate for sub-Saharan African (SSA) countries makes it difficult to establish neuroanatomical associations of hippocampus and memory in this locale.

385. Benzodiazepine-induced anterograde amnesia: detrimental side effect to novel study tool.
Abstract: Benzodiazepines (BZDs) are anxiolytic drugs that act on GABAa receptors and are used to treat anxiety disorders. However, these drugs come with the detrimental side effect of anterograde amnesia, or the inability to form new memories. In this review we discuss, behavioral paradigms, sex differences and hormonal influences affecting BZD-induced amnesia, molecular manipulations, including the knockout of GABAa receptor subunits, and regional studies utilizing lesion and microinjection techniques targeted to the hippocampus and amygdala. Additionally, the relationship between BZD use and cognitive decline related to Alzheimer's disease is addressed, as there is a lack of consensus on whether these drugs are involved in inducing or accelerating pathological cognitive deficits. This review aims to inspire new research directions, as there is a gap in knowledge in understanding the cellular and molecular mechanisms behind BZD-induced amnesia. Understanding these mechanisms will allow for the development of alternative treatments and potentially allow BZDs to be used as a novel tool to study Alzheimer's disease.

386. Prevention of Alzheimer's disease through diet: An exploratory review.
Abstract: This exploratory review article describes about the genetic factors behind Alzheimer's disease (AD), their association with foods, and their relationships with cognitive impairment. It explores the dietary patterns and economic challenges in AD prevention.

387. A TrkB and TrkC partial agonist restores deficits in synaptic function and promotes activity-dependent synaptic and microglial transcriptomic changes in a late-stage Alzheimer's mouse model.
Abstract: TrkB and TrkC receptor signaling promotes synaptic plasticity and interacts with pathways affected by amyloid-β (Aβ)-toxicity. Upregulating TrkB/C signaling could reduce Alzheimer's disease (AD)-related degenerative signaling, memory loss, and synaptic dysfunction.

388. Polysaccharides: potential bioactive macromolecules for Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the leading causes of death and disability. AD is a devastating disease that has caused an overwhelming burden. However, no disease-modified treatment was discovered. The approval of sodium oligomannate (GV-971) in mild-moderate AD patients has attracted great attention to investigate the role of saccharides in AD. Therefore, summarizing and explaining the role of saccharides in AD is urgent and promising. Recent studies showed that polysaccharides (PSs) potentially benefit AD in vitro and in vivo. PSs could alleviate the pathological damage and improve cognitive symptoms via (1) antagonizing the toxicity of abnormal amyloid-beta and tau proteins; (2) attenuating oxidative stress and proinflammation; (3) rebuilding neuroplasticity. PSs exhibit one-multiple pathological hits of AD. However, a thorough chemical investigation is needed for further study.

389. The use of the integrated cognitive assessment to improve the efficiency of primary care referrals to memory services in the accelerating dementia pathway technologies study.
Abstract: Current primary care cognitive assessment tools are either crude or time-consuming instruments that can only detect cognitive impairment when it is well established. This leads to unnecessary or late referrals to memory services, by which time the disease may have already progressed into more severe stages. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, some memory services have adapted to the new environment by shifting to remote assessments of patients to meet service user demand. However, the use of remote cognitive assessments has been inconsistent, and there has been little evaluation of the outcome of such a change in clinical practice. Emerging research has highlighted computerized cognitive tests, such as the Integrated Cognitive Assessment (ICA), as the leading candidates for adoption in clinical practice. This is true both during the pandemic and in the post-COVID-19 era as part of healthcare innovation.

390. Addressing depression in older adults with Alzheimer's through cognitive behavioral therapy: systematic review and meta-analysis.
Abstract: This systematic review and meta-analysis was conducted to provide an analysis of the published data about the effects of cognitive behavioral therapies on the depression of older adults with a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.

391. The role of glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta in neurodegenerative diseases.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) pose an increasingly prevalent threat to the well-being and survival of elderly individuals worldwide. NDDs include Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and so on. They are characterized by progressive loss or dysfunction of neurons in the central or peripheral nervous system and share several cellular and molecular mechanisms, including protein aggregation, mitochondrial dysfunction, gene mutations, and chronic neuroinflammation. Glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta (GSK-3β) is a serine/threonine kinase that is believed to play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of NDDs. Here we summarize the structure and physiological functions of GSK3β and explore its involvement in NDDs. We also discussed its potential as a therapeutic target.

392. Involvement of brain-derived neurotrophic factor signaling in the pathogenesis of stress-related brain diseases.
Abstract: Neurotrophins including brain-derived neurotrophic factor, BDNF, have critical roles in neuronal differentiation, cell survival, and synaptic function in the peripheral and central nervous system. It is well known that a variety of intracellular signaling stimulated by TrkB, a high-affinity receptor for BDNF, is involved in the physiological and pathological neuronal aspects via affecting cell viability, synaptic function, neurogenesis, and cognitive function. As expected, an alteration of the BDNF/TrkB system is suspected to be one of the molecular mechanisms underlying cognitive decline in cognitive diseases and mental disorders. Recent evidence has also highlighted a possible link between the alteration of TrkB signaling and chronic stress. Furthermore, it has been demonstrated that downregulation of the BDNF/TrkB system and chronic stress have a role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and mental disorders. In this review, we introduce current evidence showing a close relationship between the BDNF/TrkB system and the development of cognition impairment in stress-related disorders, and the possible contribution of the upregulation of the BDNF/TrkB system in a therapeutic approach against these brain diseases.

393. Multifunctional role of zinc in human health: an update.
Abstract: Zinc is a multipurpose trace element for the human body, as it plays a crucial part in various physiological processes, such as cell growth and development, metabolism, cognitive, reproductive, and immune system function. Its significance in human health is widely acknowledged, and this has led the scientific community towards more research that aims to uncover all of its beneficial properties, especially when compared to other essential metal ions. One notable area where zinc has shown beneficial effects is in the prevention and treatment of various diseases, including cancer. This review aims to explain the involvement of zinc in specific health conditions such as cancer, coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) and neurological disorders like Alzheimer's disease, as well as its impact on the gut microbiome.

394. Early-onset Alzheimer's disease explained by polygenic risk of late-onset disease?
Abstract: Early-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) is highly heritable, yet only 10% of cases are associated with known pathogenic mutations. For early-onset AD patients without an identified autosomal dominant cause, we hypothesized that their early-onset disease reflects further enrichment of the common risk-conferring single nucleotide polymorphisms associated with late-onset AD. We applied a previously validated polygenic hazard score for late-onset AD to 193 consecutive patients diagnosed at our tertiary dementia referral center with symptomatic early-onset AD. For comparison, we included 179 participants with late-onset AD and 70 healthy controls. Polygenic hazard scores were similar in early- versus late-onset AD. The polygenic hazard score was not associated with age-of-onset or disease biomarkers within early-onset AD. Early-onset AD does not represent an extreme enrichment of the common single nucleotide polymorphisms associated with late-onset AD. Further exploration of novel genetic risk factors of this highly heritable disease is warranted.Highlights: There is a unique genetic architecture of early- versus late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD).Late-onset AD polygenic risk is not an explanation for early-onset AD.Polygenic risk of late-onset AD does not predict early-onset AD biology.Unique genetic architecture of early- versus late-onset AD parallels AD heterogeneity.

395. Incidence of dementia over a period of 20 years in a Norwegian population.
Abstract: In Norway, the prevalence of dementia is higher than in demographically comparable, high income countries, but reliable incidence studies are lacking. This study calculated the incidence of age-specific dementia from 2000 to 2019.

396. An incidental finding of lung nodule in patient presenting with posterior chest wall trauma: A case report.
Abstract: Lung nodule is considered a common incidental finding in chest CT evaluation. Most cases are benign and derived from a previous infection. However, here we present a case where a patient presenting to the hospital with posterior chest wall trauma had a solitary pulmonary nodule that is consistent with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). We would like to emphasize the importance of evaluation of incidental findings in chest CT evaluation, in this case, trauma cases by presenting this case. An 81-year-old male was referred to the emergency department with altered consciousness and a history of posterior chest trauma. He complained of a productive cough, but no other symptoms were reported. He had a medical history of Alzheimer's dementia, COVID-19, and hypertension. Physical examination revealed a hematoma on the right side of his back and reduced breath sound. Anteroposterior radiograph showed multiple right posterior rib fractures with right pleural effusion. Contrast-enhanced chest CT revealed a low-density solitary pulmonary nodule with multiple lymphadenopathies, with the presumptive diagnosis of incidentaloma. It was confirmed by pleural analysis with the increase of Cyfra 21-1 tumor marker and consistent with non-small cell lung cancer. In CT studies, incidental solitary pulmonary nodules are common, occurring in 8%-51%. Nodules are often discovered incidentally in trauma patients, but they are not always reported or followed up. It is important to note that each may indicate a clinical significance and represents the potential for malignancy which requires additional workup and further evaluation.

397. Hotspots and future trends of autophagy in Traditional Chinese Medicine: A Bibliometric analysis.
Abstract: To discuss the hotspots and future trends of autophagy in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) and provide a reference for researchers in this field.

398. The Molecular Basis of Wnt/β-Catenin Signaling Pathways in Neurodegenerative Diseases.
Abstract: Defective Wnt signaling is found to be associated with various neurodegenerative diseases. In the canonical pathway, the Frizzled receptor (Fzd) and the lipoprotein receptor-related proteins 5/6 (LRP5/LRP6) create a seven-pass transmembrane receptor complex to which the Wnt ligands bind. This interaction causes the tumor suppressor adenomatous polyposis coli gene product (APC), casein kinase 1 (CK1), and GSK-3β (glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta) to be recruited by the scaffold protein Dishevelled (Dvl), which in turn deactivates the β-catenin destruction complex. This inactivation stops the destruction complex from phosphorylating β-catenin. As a result, β-catenin first builds up in the cytoplasm and then migrates into the nucleus, where it binds to the Lef/Tcf transcription factor to activate the transcription of more than 50 Wnt target genes, including those involved in cell growth, survival, differentiation, neurogenesis, and inflammation. The treatments that are currently available for neurodegenerative illnesses are most commonly not curative in nature but are only symptomatic. According to all available research, restoring Wnt/β-catenin signaling in the brains of patients with neurodegenerative disorders, particularly Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, would improve the condition of several patients with neurological disorders. The importance of Wnt activators and modulators in patients with such illnesses is to mainly restore rather than overstimulate the Wnt/β-catenin signaling, thereby reestablishing the equilibrium between Wnt-OFF and Wnt-ON states. In this review, we have tried to summarize the significance of the Wnt canonical pathway in the pathophysiology of certain neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, cerebral ischemia, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, multiple sclerosis, and other similar diseases, and as to how can it be restored in these patients.

399. Comparison of the efficacy of human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells conditioned medium and platelet-rich plasma on the hippocampus of STZ-induced rat model of Alzheimer's disease: A behavioral and stereological study.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is accompanied by progressive cognitive disorders and memory loss. This study aims to determine the combined effects of conditioned medium of human umbilical cord mesenchymal stem cells (CM) and platelet-rich plasma (PRP) on AD model rats.

400. Resting-state electroencephalographic characteristics related to mild cognitive impairments.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) causes a rapid deterioration in cognitive and physical functions, including problem-solving, memory, language, and daily activities. Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is considered a risk factor for AD, and early diagnosis and treatment of MCI may help slow the progression of AD. Electroencephalography (EEG) analysis has become an increasingly popular tool for developing biomarkers for MCI and AD diagnosis. Compared with healthy elderly, patients with AD showed very clear differences in EEG patterns, but it is inconclusive for MCI. This study aimed to investigate the resting-state EEG features of individuals with MCI (n = 12) and cognitively healthy controls (HC) (n = 13) with their eyes closed. EEG data were analyzed using spectral power, complexity, functional connectivity, and graph analysis. The results revealed no significant difference in EEG spectral power between the HC and MCI groups. However, we observed significant changes in brain complexity and networks in individuals with MCI compared with HC. Patients with MCI exhibited lower complexity in the middle temporal lobe, lower global efficiency in theta and alpha bands, higher local efficiency in the beta band, lower nodal efficiency in the frontal theta band, and less small-world network topology compared to the HC group. These observed differences may be related to underlying neuropathological alterations associated with MCI progression. The findings highlight the potential of network analysis as a promising tool for the diagnosis of MCI.

401. The Cracked Potential of Boron-containing Compounds in Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a relevant neurodegenerative disease worldwide. Its relevancy is mainly due to its high prevalence and high global burden. Metalloids have attracted attention as their serum levels seem to differ between affected patients and healthy individuals. On the other hand, atoms of some metalloids have been included in bioactive molecules, exerting some interesting effects, mainly due to their ameliorative effects in neurodegeneration. In this sense, boron-containing compounds (BCC) have been explored to regulate or prevent neurodegeneration. As an example, boric acid has been reported as a compound with antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and neurotrophic effects. Other natural BCCs have also shown amelioration of metabolic conditions often related to increased risk of neurodegenerative maladies. However, in recent years, additional organoboron compounds have been reported as active in several processes linked to neurodegeneration and especially attractive as regulators of the origin and progression of AD. In this mini-review, some data are collected suggesting that some natural BCC could be used as preventive agents, but also the potential of some BODIPYs as tools for diagnosis and some other BCC (particularly boronic acids and pinacol boronic esters) for acting as promising therapeutic agents for AD.

402. Montelukast Ameliorates Scopolamine-induced Alzheimer's Disease: Role on Cholinergic Neurotransmission, Antioxidant Defence System, Neuroinflammation and Expression of BDNF.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an overwhelming neurodegenerative disease with progressive loss of memory. AD is characterized by the deposition of the senile plaques mainly composed of β-amyloid (Aβ) fragment, BDNF decline, Cholinergic system overactivity and neuroinflammation. Montelukast (MTK), a leukotriene receptor antagonist, showed astounding neuroprotective effects in a variety of neurodegenerative disorders.

403. Stress, depression, and risk of dementia - a cohort study in the total population between 18 and 65 years old in Region Stockholm.
Abstract: Chronic stress and depression are potential risk factors for mild cognitive impairment and dementia, including Alzheimer disease. The aim was to investigate whether any such risk is additive.

404. Mettl1-mediated internal m7G methylation of Sptbn2 mRNA elicits neurogenesis and anti-alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: N7-methylguanosine (m7G) is one of the most conserved modifications in nucleosides impacting mRNA export, splicing, and translation. However, the precise function and molecular mechanism of internal mRNA m7G methylation in adult hippocampal neurogenesis and neurogenesis-related Alzheimer's disease (AD) remain unknown.

405. Trametinib activates endogenous neurogenesis and recovers neuropathology in a model of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Enhancing adult neurogenesis in the brain has been suggested as a potential therapeutic strategy for AD. We developed a screening platform, ATRIVIEW®, for molecules that activate neuronal differentiation of adult mouse NSCs. The most potent hit from an FDA-approved drug library was SNR1611 (trametinib), a selective MEK1/2 inhibitor. We found that trametinib increases the levels of P15INK4b and Neurog2, suggesting a mechanism by which MEK1/2 inhibition induces neuronal differentiation. Oral administration of trametinib increased adult neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus and subventricular zone of the 5XFAD AD mouse model. Surprisingly, we also found that trametinib enhanced adult neurogenesis in the cortex. Consequently, trametinib rescued AD pathologies such as neuronal loss and cognitive impairment in 5XFAD mice. Finally, trametinib induced neurogenic differentiation of NSCs derived from AD patient iPSCs, which suggests its potential therapeutic application. Altogether, we suggest that restoration of endogenous adult neurogenesis by trametinib may be a promising therapeutic approach to AD.

406. Predicting sojourn times across dementia disease stages, institutionalization, and mortality.
Abstract: Inferring the timeline from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to severe dementia is pivotal for patients, clinicians, and researchers. Literature is sparse and often contains few patients. We aim to determine the time spent in MCI, mild-, moderate-, severe dementia, and institutionalization until death.

407. Clock-Drawing Test and Cube-Copying Test to Quickly Screen Dementia: In Combination with the Mini-Mental State Examination Scores.
Abstract: Objective Due to the increasing elderly population and number of dementia patients, the current number of psychiatrists and neurologists remains insufficient to treat dementia in Japan. Therefore, a simple method for accurately performing a dementia diagnosis, including that of primary care physicians, is sought in clinical practice. Methods A retrospective study was conducted on patients who made their first visit due to amnesia between October 2020 and October 2022. The sensitivities and specificities of four spatial recognition and planning ability evaluation methods (fox finger imitation test, pentagon-copying test (PCT), cube-copying test (CCT), and clock-drawing test (CDT) ) were calculated. The difference between the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) scores, as an evaluation of memory and language impairment, and CDT scores were assessed using the Mann-Whitney U test. Patients Fifty-one patients with dementia and 6 patients without dementia were examined in this study. Results The sensitivity and specificity were 31.4% and 100% for the fox finger imitation tests, 29.4% and 100% for PCT, 62% and 83.3% for CCT, and 72.5% and 100% for CDT, respectively. The sensitivity increased to 78.4% when the CCT and CDT results were combined. Spearman's rank correlation coefficient between the MMSE and CDT scores of the 51 patients with dementia showed a significantly positive correlation (r = 0.62, p <0.001). Comparing Alzheimer's disease (AD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), the difference between the MMSE and CDT scores was significantly greater in patients with DLB. Conclusion To quickly screen for dementia, a combination of CCT and CDT is recommended for the highest sensitivity (78.4%). In addition, the difference between the CDT and MMSE scores is considered to be useful for differentiating DLB from AD.

408. Exosomes in multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease - adversary and ally.
Abstract: Neuroinflammation and the resulting neurodegeneration is a big challenge for the healthcare system, especially with the aging population. Neuroinflammation can result from a variety of insults to the central nervous system leading to an interplay between immune and brain cells that sustains chronic inflammation and injures neural cells. One facilitator of this toxic interplay are exosomes. Exosomes are nano-sized, bilayer lipid vesicles secreted by cells containing proteins, nucleic acids and lipids. Because exosomes can be internalized by other cells, their contents can elicit inflammatory responses and trigger toxicities in recipient cells. On the flip side, exosomes can act as therapeutic vehicles carrying protective cargo to maintain homeostasis. This review discusses exosome biogenesis, composition, and its role in neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration in the context of multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer's disease. The emerging roles of exosomes as biomarkers of neurologic diseases and as therapeutic delivery vehicles are also discussed. With all of these varying roles, interest and excitement in exosomes continue to grow exponentially and their promise as brain therapeutics is only beginning to be explored and harnessed.

409. Dexmedetomidine mitigates neuroinflammation in an Alzheimer's disease mouse model via the miR-204-3p/FBXL7 signaling axis.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder characterized by neuroinflammation. Dexmedetomidine (Dex) is known for its neuroprotective properties in clinical settings. In this study, we investigated the potential of Dex in protecting against neuroinflammation in an AD mouse model induced by amyloid-beta (Aβ) injection. First, in the AD mouse model, Aβ injection were administered, and the model was confirmed through behavioral tests, including the Morris water maze and Y-maze. Neuroinflammatory states in Aβ-injected mice were assessed using hematoxylin and eosin staining and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Expression levels of microRNA (miR)-204-3p and F-box/LRR-repeat protein 7 (FBXL7) in mouse tissues were determined through real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blot. The binding interaction between miR-204-3p and FBXL7 was elucidated using dual-luciferase analysis. Aβ-injected mice exhibited cognitive impairment, neuroinflammation, and downregulated miR-204-3p. Upregulation of miR-204-3p reduced inflammatory infiltration and mitigated neuroinflammation in Aβ-injected mice. Dex treatment reduced inflammation in hippocampal tissues of Aβ-injected mice. Dex treatment upregulated miR-204-3p, leading to suppressed FBXL7 expression in tissues. Inhibition of miR-204-3p or overexpression of FBXL7 reversed the alleviating effect of Dex on neuroinflammation in Aβ-injected mice. Overall, Dex increased miR-204-3p expression, resulting in the inhibition of FBXL7, and subsequently alleviated neuroinflammation in Aβ-injected mice.

410. Antioxidant and anti-Alzheimer activities of Clivia miniata (Lindl) roots, bulbs, and aerial parts: In-vitro and in-silico studies.
Abstract: Clivia miniata (Lindl) is a member of the family Amaryllidaceae known for its chemically diverse alkaloids with a wide range of biological activities. Many reports revealed a direct role of oxidative stress in the early stage of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Meanwhile, β-site amyloid precursor protein cleavage enzyme 1 (BACE-1) is a molecular target for the treatment of AD. We aimed to investigate C. miniata root, bulb, and aerial part chemical profiling, antioxidant, BACE-1, and AChE enzyme inhibitory activities. Results showed that the total root had the most potent radical scavenging activity as compared to the total bulb and aerial part, respectively. Ethanol root extract had the most potent BACE-1 inhibitory activity (IC50 = 0.02 ± 0.001 µg/mL) as compared to the bulb and aerial part (IC50 = 0.93 ± 0.13, 1.80 ± 0.24 µg/mL), respectively. Moreover, the total root extract mitigated AChE enzyme activity more than total bulb and aerial fractions with IC50 values of (0.06 ± 0.02, 0.58 ± 0.3, and 1.89 ± 0.42 µg/mL, respectively. Bioassay-guided acid-base fractionation confirmed superior BACE-1 inhibitory activity of the root fractions particularly, methylene chloride and ethyl acetate fractions with (IC50 values of 0.21 ± 0.60 and 0.01 ± 0.001 µg/mL), respectively. UPLC-MS analysis of ethyl acetate and methylene chloride fractions of C. miniata root led to the identification of eight phenolics and thirteen alkaloids, respectively. Molecular docking studies against BACE-1 protein revealed that lycorine di-hexoside, miniatine, and cliviaaline were the most promising hits. Further investigation of anti-AD potential of the aforementioned small molecules is required.

411. Natural products for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative diseases are among the most common diseases in older adults worldwide. Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD) are two of the most common neurodegenerative diseases, and are accompanied by cerebral cortical atrophy, neuronal loss, protein accumulation, and excessive accumulation of metal ions. Natural products exhibit outstanding performance in improving cerebral circulatory disorders, promoting cerebral haematoma absorption, repairing damaged nerve tissue, and improving damaged nerve function. In recent years, studies have shown that neuroinflammatory mechanisms and signalling pathways closely related to the occurrence and development of neurological diseases include microglial activation, nuclear factor-κB (NF-κB) pathway, mitogen activated protein kinases (MAPK) pathway, reactive oxygen pathway, nucleotide binding oligomerisation domain-like receptor protein3 (NLRP3) inflammasomes, toll-like receptor4 (TLR4) pathway, nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)/hemeoxygenase-1 (HO-1) pathway, phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/protein kinase B (Akt) pathway, and intestinal flora. Therefore, this study considered the mechanism of neurological diseases as the starting point to review the mechanism of action of natural products in the prevention and treatment of AD and PD in recent years to provide a theoretical basis for clinical prevention and treatment.

412. ApoE4-dependent lysosomal cholesterol accumulation impairs mitochondrial homeostasis and oxidative phosphorylation in human astrocytes.
Abstract: Recent developments in genome sequencing have expanded the knowledge of genetic factors associated with late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD). Among them, genetic variant ε4 of the APOE gene (APOE4) confers the greatest disease risk. Dysregulated glucose metabolism is an early pathological feature of AD. Using isogenic ApoE3 and ApoE4 astrocytes derived from human induced pluripotent stem cells, we find that ApoE4 increases glycolytic activity but impairs mitochondrial respiration in astrocytes. Ultrastructural and autophagy flux analyses show that ApoE4-induced cholesterol accumulation impairs lysosome-dependent removal of damaged mitochondria. Acute treatment with cholesterol-depleting agents restores autophagic activity, mitochondrial dynamics, and associated proteomes, and extended treatment rescues mitochondrial respiration in ApoE4 astrocytes. Taken together, our study provides a direct link between ApoE4-induced lysosomal cholesterol accumulation and abnormal oxidative phosphorylation.

413. Identification of cognitive load-dependent activation patterns using working memory task-based fMRI at various levels of difficulty.
Abstract: Working memory, which is regarded as the foundation of cognitive processes, is a system that stores, processes, and manipulates information in short intervals of time that are actually needed for daily functioning. This study aimed to assess the brain activity of healthy controls (HC) while performing the N-back task, which is one of the most popularly used tests for evaluating working memory along with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). In this regard, we collected fMRI data from right-handed individuals in a 3.0 T scanner during the Persian version of the visual variant N-back task performance with three levels of complexity varied throughout the experiment (1, 2, and 3-back conditions) to increase the cognitive demands. The statistical parametric mapping (SPM12) software was used to analyze fMRI data for the identification of cognitive load-dependent activation patterns based on contrast images obtained from different levels of task difficulty. Our findings showed that as cognitive complexity increased, the number of significant activation clusters and cluster extent increased in several areas distributed in the cerebellum, frontoparietal lobes, insula, SMA, and lenticular nucleus, the majority of which are recognized for their role in working memory. Furthermore, deactivation patterns during 1-, 2-, and 3-back vs. 0-back contrasts revealed significant clusters in brain regions that are mostly described as being part of the default mode network (DMN). Based on previous research, our results supported the recognized involvement of the mentioned cortical and subcortical areas in various types or levels of N-back tasks. This study found that altering activation patterns by increasing task difficulty could aid in evaluating the various stages of cognitive dysfunction in many brain diseases such as multiple sclerosis (MS) and Alzheimer's disease by comparing controls in future studies to apply early appropriate treatment strategies.

414. Air pollution, glymphatic impairment, and Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Epidemiological evidence demonstrates a link between air pollution exposure and the onset and progression of cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, current understanding of the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms is limited. This opinion article examines the hypothesis that air pollution-induced impairment of glymphatic clearance represents a crucial etiological event in the development of AD. Exposure to airborne particulate matter (PM) leads to systemic inflammation and neuroinflammation, increased metal load, respiratory and cardiovascular dysfunction, and sleep abnormalities. All these factors are known to reduce the efficiency of glymphatic clearance. Rescuing glymphatic function by restricting the impact of causative agents, and improving sleep and cardiovascular system health, may increase the efficiency of waste metabolite clearance and subsequently slow the progression of AD. In sum, we introduce air pollution-mediated glymphatic impairment as an important mechanistic factor to be considered when interpreting the etiology and progression of AD as well as its responsiveness to therapeutic interventions.

415. Melatonin-mediated IGF-1/GLP-1 activation in experimental OCD rats: Evidence from CSF, blood plasma, brain and in-silico investigations.
Abstract: Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a neuropsychiatric condition characterized by intrusive, repetitive thoughts and behaviors. Our study uses a validated 8-OH-DPAT-induced experimental model of OCD in rodents. We focus on the modulatory effects of Insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), which are linked to neurodevelopment and survival. Current research investigates melatonin, a molecule with neuroprotective properties and multiple functions. Melatonin has beneficial effects on various illnesses, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and depression, indicating its potential efficacy in treating OCD. In the present study, we employed two doses of melatonin, 5 mg/kg and 10 mg/kg, demonstrating a dose-dependent effect on 8-OH-DPAT-induced rat changes. In addition, the melatonin antagonist luzindole 5 mg/kg was utilized to compare and validate the efficacy of melatonin. In-silico studies alsocontribute to understanding the activation of IGF-1/GLP-1 pathways by melatonin. Current research indicates restoring neurochemical measurements on various biological samples (brain homogenates, CSF, and blood plasma) and morphological and histological analyses. In addition, the current research seeks to increase understanding of OCD and investigate potential new treatment strategies. Therefore, it is evident from the aforementioned research that the protective effect of melatonin can serve as a strong basis for developing a new OCD treatment by upregulating IGF-1 and GLP-1 levels. The primary focus of current study revolves around the examination of melatonin as an activator of IGF-1/GLP-1, with the aim of potentially mitigating behavioral, neurochemical, and histopathological abnormalities in an experimental model of obsessive-compulsive disorder caused by 8-OH-DPAT in adult Wistar rats.

416. Metaorganismal choline metabolism shapes olfactory perception.
Abstract: Microbes living in the intestine can regulate key signaling processes in the central nervous system that directly impact brain health. This gut-brain signaling axis is partially mediated by microbe-host dependent immune regulation, gut innervating neuronal communication, as well as endocrine-like small molecule metabolites that originate from bacteria to ultimately cross the blood-brain barrier. Given the mounting evidence of gut-brain crosstalk, a new therapeutic approach of "psychobiotics" has emerged, whereby strategies designed to primarily modify the gut microbiome have been shown to improve mental health or slow neurodegenerative diseases. Diet is one of the most powerful determinants of gut microbiome community structure, and dietary habits are associated with brain health and disease. Recently, the metaorganismal (i.e diet-microbe-host) trimethylamine N-oxide (TMAO) pathway has been linked to the development of several brain diseases including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and ischemic stroke. However, it is poorly understood how metaorganismal TMAO production influences brain function under normal physiological conditions. To address this, here we have reduced TMAO levels by inhibiting gut microbe-driven choline conversion to trimethylamine (TMA), and then performed comprehensive behavioral phenotyping in mice. Unexpectedly, we find that TMAO is particularly enriched in the murine olfactory bulb, and when TMAO production is blunted at the level of bacterial choline TMA lyase (CutC/D), olfactory perception is altered. Taken together, our studies demonstrate a previously underappreciated role for the TMAO pathway in olfactory-related behaviors.

417. Inhibition of tau phosphorylation and Aβ accumulation by S. cerevisiae-derived vacuoles in LPS-induced SH-SY5Y cells.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), are characterized by the accumulation of intracellular tau and amyloid beta (Aβ) proteins, which lead to neuroinflammation and neuronal apoptosis. In this study, we investigated the potential of a bioengineered vacuoles derived from Saccharomyces cerevisiae-derived vacuoles to treat neuroinflammation and protein accumulation in AD. The yeast-derived vacuole is a small organelle that achieves efficient degradation by utilizing a diverse array of hydrolytic enzymes. These hydrolytic enzymes break down and process proteins into smaller fragments. We found that vacuoles treatment significantly reduced LPS-primed cell apoptosis and diminished Aβ42 secretion in vitro, potentially through the inhibition of the NF-kB p65 signaling pathway. Additionally, vacuole pre-treatment down-regulated NF-κB translocation and reduced phosphorylated tau levels in LPS-induced SH-SY5Y cells. Our results suggest that the vacuoles have potential as a therapeutic agent for neurodegenerative diseases. The vacuole's small size and diverse hydrolytic enzymes make it a promising drug delivery system for targeting intracellular proteins. Future studies may explore the use of vacuoles in animal models of AD to determine their therapeutic potential.

418. Acoustic stimulation during sleep improves cognition and ameliorates Alzheimer's disease pathology in APP/PS1 mice.
Abstract: Nonpharmacological therapies for Alzheimer's disease (AD) have become a popular research topic, and acoustic stimulation during sleep is one such promising strategy for the clinical treatment of AD. Some animal experiments have illustrated that acoustic stimulation at a specific frequency can ameliorate AD-related pathology or improve cognition in mice, but these studies did not explore the effective time window of auditory stimulation. Here, we explored the effects of acoustic stimulation during wakefulness and acoustic stimulation during sleep on cognition and AD-related pathology in APP/PS1 mice and the underlying mechanisms. In this study, forty APP/PS1 mice were equally divided into the following 4 groups and treated for 28 days: the chronic sleep deprivation (CSD) group (exposed to sleep deprivation from zeitgeber time [ZT] 0 to ZT 12 each day), the normal sleep and stress exposure (NSS) group (exposed to a stressor from ZT 0 to ZT 12 each day), the acoustic stimulation during wakefulness (ASW) group (exposed to sleep deprivation and 40 Hz acoustic stimulation from ZT 0 to ZT 12 each day) and the acoustic stimulation during sleep (ASS) group (exposed to sleep deprivation from ZT 0 to ZT 12 and 40 Hz acoustic stimulation from ZT 12 to ZT 24 each day). After the intervention, cognition was assessed by behavioural experiments. The amyloid-β burden was analysed by Western blotting, immunofluorescence and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Tau pathology was assessed by Western blotting. Mitochondrial function was evaluated by transmission electron microscopy, Western blotting and fluorescence intensity measurement. We found that the NSS and ASS groups had better cognitive functions than the CSD and ASW groups. The Aβ burden and tau phosphorylation were lower in the NSS and ASS groups than in the CSD and ASW groups. Mitochondrial function was better in the NSS and ASS groups than in the CSD and ASW groups. However, the differences in these parameters between the NSS and ASS groups and between the CSD and ASW groups were not significant. Our findings suggest that acoustic stimulation at a specific frequency during sleep, but not during wakefulness, reduces the amyloid-β burden by inhibiting amyloid beta precursor protein-binding protein 2, hinders tau phosphorylation by blocking glycogen synthase kinase 3 beta, and restores mitochondrial function by elevating mitophagy and promoting mitochondrial biogenesis.

419. Emerging strategies to fabricate polymeric nanocarriers for enhanced drug delivery across blood-brain barrier: An overview.
Abstract: Blood-brain barrier (BBB) serves as an essential interface between central nervous system (CNS) and its periphery, allowing selective permeation of ions, gaseous molecules, and other nutrients to maintain metabolic functions of brain. Concurrently, it restricts passage of unsolicited materials from bloodstream to CNS which could otherwise lead to neurotoxicity. Nevertheless, in the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, diffuse intrinsic pontine glioma, and other brain cancers, drugs must reach CNS. Among various materials developed for this purpose, a few judiciously selected polymeric nanocarriers are reported to be highly prospective to facilitate BBB permeation. However, the challenge of transporting drug-loaded nanomaterials across this barrier remains formidable. Herein a concise analysis of recently employed strategies for designing polymeric nanocarriers to deliver therapeutics across BBB is presented. Impacts of 3Ss, namely, size, shape, and surface charge of polymeric nanocarriers on BBB permeation along with different ligands used for nanoparticle surface modification to achieve targeted delivery have been scrutinized. Finally, we elucidated future research directions in the context of designing smart polymeric nanocarriers for BBB permeation. This work aims to guide researchers engaged in polymeric nanocarrier design, helping them navigate where to begin, what challenges to address, and how to proceed effectively.

420. Metal ion mediated aggregation of Alzheimer's disease peptides and proteins in solutions and at surfaces.
Abstract: Although the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is still unclear, abnormally high concentrations of metal ions, like copper, iron and zinc, were found in senile plaques of AD brain, which inspires extensive studies on the fundamental molecular interactions of metal ions with the pathogenic hallmarks, amyloid-β (Aβ) peptides and tau proteins, respectively forming senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) in AD brains. Early works concern the concentration effect of the metal ions on Aβ and tau aggregation. Yet, it is obvious that the surrounding environment of the metal ions must also be considered, not just the metal ions as free accessible forms in the solution phase. The most important surrounding environment in vivo is a very large surface area from cell membranes and other macromolecular surfaces. These bio-interfaces make the kinetic pathways of metal ion mediated Aβ and tau aggregation radically different from those in the solution phase. To better understand the role of metal ions in AD peptide and protein aggregation, we summarize and discuss the recent achievements in the research of metal ion mediated Aβ and tau aggregation, particularly the corresponding mechanism differences between the solution phase and the surface environment. The metal ion chelation therapy for AD is also discussed from the point of the surface pool of metal ions.

421. Deep learning analysis of UPLC-MS/MS-based metabolomics data to predict Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Metabolic biomarkers can potentially inform disease progression in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of this study is to identify and describe a new set of diagnostic biomarkers for developing deep learning (DL) tools to predict AD using Ultra Performance Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS)-based metabolomics data.

422. The use of Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) in informal caregivers of people with dementia and other long-term or chronic conditions: A systematic review and conceptual integration.
Abstract: Informal caregivers are the primary source of support for adults with chronic conditions and disabilities. Empirical research highlights chronic stress and other risks of adverse outcomes of caregiving. Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) is an emerging evidenced-based practice that shows promise in improving an array of outcomes, theoretically by increasing psychological flexibility as the primary process of change. Research has begun to evaluate ACT among informal caregivers of adult populations, and a systematic review is now needed to summarise this evidence base. Electronic searches from five databases, including PubMed, PsycInfo, Embase, CINAHL, and Cochrane Library, yielded an initial 7896 hits, which after screening for inclusion criteria, resulted in 21 clinical trials. Studies were coded to synthesise the feasibility, effectiveness, and quality of evidence. Findings show that ACT was reported to be largely feasible and acceptable. However, the efficacy of ACT was mixed, with a more consistent pattern for informal caregivers of people with dementia. Several methodological quality issues limited the findings. However, theoretical synthesis and preliminary evidence support the promising effect of ACT in subgroups of informal caregivers. Research on the process of change, as well as larger-scale, methodologically rigorous trials, are needed to consolidate these findings.

423. Intrathecal autologous thrombin-activated condensed platelet cytokines in chronic neurodegenerative disease: A hypothesis for anti-inflammatory and regenerative response.
Abstract: Choroid plexus insufficiency or glymphatic stasis are often classified as prequels to harmful accretion of toxic proteins in neurodegenerative disease. Cognitive decline and disordered neuronal signaling subsequently become cardinal features of Alzheimer's disease (AD), typically progressing with amyloid-ß and tau protein accumulation. For Parkinson's disease (PD), α-synuclein deposits and dopamine depletion are linked to impaired movement, resting tremor, and rigidity. Importantly, both diagnoses feature hyperinflammation and intrathecal cytokine changes. Thus far, numerous clinical trials have produced nothing effective for AD or PD, yet the anti-inflammatory and regenerative potential of autologous platelet-rich plasma (PRP) remains largely unexamined in this context. Our report explores a proposed Phase I study on intrathecal condensed plasma growth factors processed from thrombin-activated PRP as monotherapy for AD or PD. The concept gains support from related work where cytokines of platelet origin successfully lowered inflammation, corrected background fibrosis, deactivated abnormal cells, and recovered local tissue function-all desirable outcomes in AD and PD. While PRP-mediated effects on membrane potentials, cellular signaling, electrolyte balance, and water clearance are less well characterized, experimental data suggest these pathways could likewise influence glymphatic drainage to ameliorate proteinopathies. As a well-tolerated 'orthobiologic' with no hypersensitivity risk, intrathecal PRP and its derivatives bring advantages over synthetic pharmaceuticals. If age-associated neuroinflammation in AD and PD is an upstream event inciting or contributing to neural disruption, then dampening local oxidative stress by a patient's own platelet cytokines (successful in other contexts) could offer therapeutic relevance to these neurodegenerative conditions as well.

424. Study design and methods: U.S. study to protect brain health through lifestyle intervention to reduce risk (U.S. POINTER).
Abstract: The U.S. study to protect brain health through lifestyle intervention to reduce risk (U.S. POINTER) is conducted to confirm and expand the results of the Finnish Geriatric Intervention Study to Prevent Cognitive Impairment and Disability (FINGER) in Americans.

425. Non-invasive biomarkers for mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease is the most common type of dementia in the elderly. It is a progressive degenerative disorder that may begin to develop up to 15 years before clinical symptoms appear. The identification of early biomarkers is crucial to enable a prompt diagnosis and to start effective interventions. In this work, we conducted a metabolomic study using proton Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (1H NMR) spectroscopy in serum samples from patients with neuropathologically confirmed Alzheimer's disease (AD, n = 51), mild cognitive impairment (MCI, n = 27), and cognitively healthy controls (HC, n = 50) to search for metabolites that could be used as biomarkers. Patients and controls underwent yearly clinical follow-ups for up to six years. MCI group included samples from three subgroups of subjects with different disease progression rates. The first subgroup included subjects that remained clinically stable at the MCI stage during the period of study (stable MCI, S-MCI, n = 9). The second subgroup accounted for subjects which were diagnosed with MCI at the moment of blood extraction, but progressed to clinical dementia in subsequent years (MCI-to-dementia, MCI-D, n = 14). The last subgroup was composed of subjects that had been diagnosed as dementia for the first time at the moment of sample collection (incipient dementia, Incp-D, n = 4). Partial Least Square Discriminant Analysis (PLS-DA) models were developed. Three models were obtained, one to discriminate between AD and HC samples with high sensitivity (93.75%) and specificity (94.75%), another model to discriminate between AD and MCI samples (100% sensitivity and 82.35% specificity), and a last model to discriminate HC and MCI with lower sensitivity and specificity (67% and 50%). Differences within the MCI group were further studied in an attempt to determine those MCI subjects that could develop AD-type dementia in the future. The relative concentration of metabolites, and metabolic pathways were studied. Alterations in the pathways of alanine, aspartate and glutamate metabolism, pantothenate and CoA biosynthesis, and beta-alanine metabolism, were found when HC and MCI- D patients were compared. In contrast, no pathway was found disturbed in the comparison of S-MCI with HC groups. These results highlight the potential of 1H NMR metabolomics to support the diagnosis of dementia in a less invasive way, and set a starting point for the study of potential biomarkers to identify MCI or HC subjects at risk of developing AD in the future.

426. Identification Of Dementia In Medicare Claims Compared To Rigorous Clinical Assessments In African Americans.
Abstract: Evidence indicates the healthcare system disproportionately misses dementia in African American compared to White individuals. In preliminary data, we examined factors related to dementia identification by the healthcare system among African Americans.

427. Dose response of transcranial near infrared light stimulation on brain functional connectivity and cognition in older adults- a randomised comparison.
Abstract: 'Photobiomodulation, also called low-level light therapy, has been reported in animal studies to have an effect on brain activity and cognition. However, studies in humans regarding its effect on cognition and brain functional connectivity, and the required dose threshold for achieving the same have been very limited. We compared the effects of different doses of photobiomodulation (PBM) on cognition and resting state brain functional connectivity in 25 cognitively normal adults aged 55 to 70 years. They were randomized to a single session of the sham group, 'low-dose' and 'high-dose' groups receiving NIR light with transcranial fluence of 26 and 52 J/cm2 respectively, and intranasal fluence of 9 and 18 J/cm2 respectively. There was a significant increase in resting state functional connectivity of the left superior frontal gyrus (SFG) with the left planum temporale (PT), p = 0.0016, and with the left inferior frontal gyrus, pars triangularis, p = 0.0235 in the 'high-dose' group only compared to the 'sham' group. There was also a significant improvement in visual search and processing speed (p = 0.012) in the 'high-dose' group. Replication of these findings in an adequately powered randomised sham-controlled study in healthy older adults can pave the way for clinical application of NIRL as a therapeutic modality in patients with Alzheimer's disease. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

428. Pimavanserin Treatment for Psychosis in Patients with Dementia with Lewy Bodies: A Case Series.
Abstract: BACKGROUND Many patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) experience cholinesterase inhibitor- and antipsychotic-resistant psychosis. The new second-generation antipsychotic pimavanserin has been used with some success in the treatment of psychosis in other forms of dementia, including Alzheimer disease and Parkinson disease dementia. It is possible that pimavanserin may also be useful in the treatment of psychosis in DLB. We sought to describe the disease course and treatment of psychosis in 4 patients with DLB who were prescribed pimavanserin after other medications failed to reduce the frequency or severity of hallucinations and delusions. CASE REPORT This is a case series of 4 male patients (ages 56 to 74 at the beginning of the reports) who developed DLB and psychosis (eg, visual illusions, visual and olfactory hallucinations, and paranoid delusions). All 4 patients were prescribed cholinesterase inhibitors (eg, donepezil or rivastigmine) prior to pimavanserin, and only 1 patient experienced improved psychosis while on cholinesterase inhibitors. All 3 patients who were prescribed first-generation antipsychotics (eg, haloperidol) or traditional second-generation antipsychotics (eg, olanzapine, risperidone, or quetiapine) experienced initial or lasting side effects with no improvement of psychosis. Conversely, all 4 patients tolerated pimavanserin well, and 3 of the 4 patients experienced significant improvement of psychosis (eg, fewer hallucinations, fewer delusions, reduced paranoia, and/or reduced distress or agitation related to hallucinations and delusions) when prescribed pimavanserin. CONCLUSIONS This case series suggests that pimavanserin is tolerable in older males with DLB and that it may be useful for the reduction of distressful hallucinations, delusions, and paranoia in patients with DLB.

429. A microglial activity state biomarker panel differentiates FTD-granulin and Alzheimer's disease patients from controls.
Abstract: With the emergence of microglia-modulating therapies there is an urgent need for reliable biomarkers to evaluate microglial activation states.

430. Shared metabolic shifts in endothelial cells in stroke and Alzheimer's disease revealed by integrated analysis.
Abstract: Since metabolic dysregulation is a hallmark of both stroke and Alzheimer's disease (AD), mining shared metabolic patterns in these diseases will help to identify their possible pathogenic mechanisms and potential intervention targets. However, a systematic integration analysis of the metabolic networks of the these diseases is still lacking. In this study, we integrated single-cell RNA sequencing datasets of ischemic stroke (IS), hemorrhagic stroke (HS) and AD models to construct metabolic flux profiles at the single-cell level. We discovered that the three disorders cause shared metabolic shifts in endothelial cells. These altered metabolic modules were mainly enriched in the transporter-related pathways and were predicted to potentially lead to a decrease in metabolites such as pyruvate and fumarate. We further found that Lef1, Elk3 and Fosl1 may be upstream transcriptional regulators causing metabolic shifts and may be possible targets for interventions that halt the course of neurodegeneration.

431. Gut-muscle-brain axis: Molecular mechanisms in neurodegenerative disorders and potential therapeutic efficacy of probiotic supplementation coupled with exercise.
Abstract: Increased longevity is often associated with age-related conditions. The most common neurodegenerative disorders in the older population are Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), associated with progressive neuronal loss leading to functional and cognitive impairments. Although symptomatic treatments are available, there is currently no cure for these conditions. Gut dysbiosis has been involved in the pathogenesis of AD and PD, thus interventions targeting the "gut-brain axis" could potentially prevent or delay these pathologies. Recent evidence suggests that the skeletal muscle and the gut microbiota can affect each other via the "gut-muscle axis". Importantly, cognitive functions in AD and PD patients significantly benefit from physical activity. In this review, we aim to provide a comprehensive picture of the crosstalk between the brain, the skeletal muscle and the gut microbiota, introducing the concept of "gut-muscle-brain axis". Moreover, we discuss human and animal studies exploring the modulatory role of exercise and probiotics on cognition in AD and PD. Collectively, the findings presented here support the potential benefits of physical activity and probiotic supplementation in AD and PD. Further studies will be needed to develop targeted and multimodal strategies, including lifestyle changes, to prevent or delay the course of these pathologies.

432. Neurotropin alleviates cognitive impairment by inhibiting TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB inflammation signaling pathway in mice with vascular dementia.
Abstract: Vascular dementia (VD) is the second most common cause of dementia after Alzheimer's disease. Neuroinflammation contributes to pathogenesis of VD. Neurotropin (NTP) is an analgesic that has been shown to suppress inflammation and neural repair. But its effects on VD are still unclear. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate the therapeutic effects and potential mechanisms of NTP in the VD model mice established by bilateral common carotid artery stenosis method. In VD mice, we found that NTP treatment increased cerebral blood flow by Laser speckle imaging, reduced neuron loss by Nissl, HE and immunochemistry staining, attenuated white matter damage by magnetic resonance imaging and ultrastructural damage by transmission electron microscope, improved cognitive functions by new object recognition test and three-chamber test, Y maze test and Morris water maze test, inhibited significantly glial activation by immunofluorescence methods, reduced the expression of TLR4, down-regulated expression of MyD88 and phosphorylation of NF-κB P65, decreased the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1β, IL-6 and TNFα. Further, we showed that administration of a TLR4 inhibitor TAK242 had a similar effect to NTP, while the TLR4 agonist CRX-527 attenuated the effect of NTP in the VD mice. Collectively, our study suggested that NTP alleviates cognitive impairment by inhibiting TLR4/MyD88/NF-κB inflammation signaling pathway in the VD mice. Thus, NTP may be a promising therapeutic approach and a potential TLR4 inhibitor for VD.

433. EAMNet: an Alzheimer's disease prediction model based on representation learning.
Abstract: Brain 18F-FDG PET images indicate brain lesions' metabolic status and offer the predictive potential for Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the complexity of extracting relevant lesion features and dealing with extraneous information in PET images poses challenges for accurate prediction.

434. Epigenomic dissection of Alzheimer's disease pinpoints causal variants and reveals epigenome erosion.
Abstract: Recent work has identified dozens of non-coding loci for Alzheimer's disease (AD) risk, but their mechanisms and AD transcriptional regulatory circuitry are poorly understood. Here, we profile epigenomic and transcriptomic landscapes of 850,000 nuclei from prefrontal cortexes of 92 individuals with and without AD to build a map of the brain regulome, including epigenomic profiles, transcriptional regulators, co-accessibility modules, and peak-to-gene links in a cell-type-specific manner. We develop methods for multimodal integration and detecting regulatory modules using peak-to-gene linking. We show AD risk loci are enriched in microglial enhancers and for specific TFs including SPI1, ELF2, and RUNX1. We detect 9,628 cell-type-specific ATAC-QTL loci, which we integrate alongside peak-to-gene links to prioritize AD variant regulatory circuits. We report differential accessibility of regulatory modules in late AD in glia and in early AD in neurons. Strikingly, late-stage AD brains show global epigenome dysregulation indicative of epigenome erosion and cell identity loss.

435. Neuronal DNA double-strand breaks lead to genome structural variations and 3D genome disruption in neurodegeneration.
Abstract: Persistent DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) in neurons are an early pathological hallmark of neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease (AD), with the potential to disrupt genome integrity. We used single-nucleus RNA-seq in human postmortem prefrontal cortex samples and found that excitatory neurons in AD were enriched for somatic mosaic gene fusions. Gene fusions were particularly enriched in excitatory neurons with DNA damage repair and senescence gene signatures. In addition, somatic genome structural variations and gene fusions were enriched in neurons burdened with DSBs in the CK-p25 mouse model of neurodegeneration. Neurons enriched for DSBs also had elevated levels of cohesin along with progressive multiscale disruption of the 3D genome organization aligned with transcriptional changes in synaptic, neuronal development, and histone genes. Overall, this study demonstrates the disruption of genome stability and the 3D genome organization by DSBs in neurons as pathological steps in the progression of neurodegenerative diseases.

436. Human microglial state dynamics in Alzheimer's disease progression.
Abstract: Altered microglial states affect neuroinflammation, neurodegeneration, and disease but remain poorly understood. Here, we report 194,000 single-nucleus microglial transcriptomes and epigenomes across 443 human subjects and diverse Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathological phenotypes. We annotate 12 microglial transcriptional states, including AD-dysregulated homeostatic, inflammatory, and lipid-processing states. We identify 1,542 AD-differentially-expressed genes, including both microglia-state-specific and disease-stage-specific alterations. By integrating epigenomic, transcriptomic, and motif information, we infer upstream regulators of microglial cell states, gene-regulatory networks, enhancer-gene links, and transcription-factor-driven microglial state transitions. We demonstrate that ectopic expression of our predicted homeostatic-state activators induces homeostatic features in human iPSC-derived microglia-like cells, while inhibiting activators of inflammation can block inflammatory progression. Lastly, we pinpoint the expression of AD-risk genes in microglial states and differential expression of AD-risk genes and their regulators during AD progression. Overall, we provide insights underlying microglial states, including state-specific and AD-stage-specific microglial alterations at unprecedented resolution.

437. Single-cell atlas reveals correlates of high cognitive function, dementia, and resilience to Alzheimer's disease pathology.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia worldwide, but the molecular and cellular mechanisms underlying cognitive impairment remain poorly understood. To address this, we generated a single-cell transcriptomic atlas of the aged human prefrontal cortex covering 2.3 million cells from postmortem human brain samples of 427 individuals with varying degrees of AD pathology and cognitive impairment. Our analyses identified AD-pathology-associated alterations shared between excitatory neuron subtypes, revealed a coordinated increase of the cohesin complex and DNA damage response factors in excitatory neurons and in oligodendrocytes, and uncovered genes and pathways associated with high cognitive function, dementia, and resilience to AD pathology. Furthermore, we identified selectively vulnerable somatostatin inhibitory neuron subtypes depleted in AD, discovered two distinct groups of inhibitory neurons that were more abundant in individuals with preserved high cognitive function late in life, and uncovered a link between inhibitory neurons and resilience to AD pathology.

438. Menopause age, reproductive span and hormone therapy duration predict the volume of medial temporal lobe brain structures in postmenopausal women.
Abstract: Medial temporal lobe (MTL) atrophy is correlated with risk and severity of Alzheimer disease (AD) pathology and cognitive decline. Increasing evidence suggest that oestrogens affect the aging of MTL structures. Here we investigate the relationship between reproductive hormone exposure, polygenic scores for AD risk and oestradiol concentration, MTL anatomy and cognitive performance in postmenopausal women. To this end, we used data from 10,924 female participants in the UK Biobank from whom brain MRI and genetic data were available. We fitted linear regression models to test whether the volume of structures comprising the MTL were predicted by a) timing related to menopause, b) the use and timing of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) and c) polygenic scores for AD risk and oestradiol concentration. Results showed that longer use of HRT was associated with larger parahippocampal volumes (2.53 mm3/year, p = 0.042). A later age of natural menopause, and a longer reproductive span, was associated with larger hippocampal (6.08 and 5.72 mm3/year, p = 0.0006 and 0.0005), parahippocampal (4.17 mm3 and 4.19 mm3/year, p = 0.00006 and 0.00001), amygdala (2.10 and 2.22 mm3/year, p = 0.028 and 0.01) and perirhinal cortical (2.56 and 2.95 mm3/year, p = 0.028 and 0.008) volumes. Superior prospective memory performance was associated with later age at natural menopause, and a longer reproductive span (ß = 0.05 and 0.05 respectively, p = 0.019 and 0.019). Polygenic scores for AD risk and for oestradiol concentration were not associated with MTL volume and did not interact with menopause-related factors to affect MTL structure. Our results suggest that HRT use did not have any detrimental effects on cognition or brain structure, whilst greater exposure to reproductive hormones across time is associated both with slightly larger volumes of specific MTL structures and marginally superior memory performance, independent of genetic risk for AD and genetic predisposition for higher oestradiol levels. However, the clinical utility of maintenance of oestrogens post-menopause for brain health and protection against cognitive decline is curtailed by the small effect sizes observed.

439. Oligomeric phloroglucinols with hAChE inhibitory and antibacterial activities from tropic Rhodomyrtus tomentosa.
Abstract: Alzheimer's diseases (AD) and other infectious diseases caused by drug-resistance bacteria have posed a serious threat to human lives and global health. With the aim to search for human acetylcholinesterase (hAChE) inhibitors and antibacterial agents from medicinal plants, 16 phloroglucinol oligomers, including two new phloroglucinol monomers (1a and 1b), four new phloroglucinol dimers (3a, 3b, 4b, and 5a), six new phloroglucinol trimers (6a, 6b, 7a, 7b, 8a, and 8b), and two naturally occurring phloroglucinol monomers (2a and 2b), along with two known congeners (4a and 5b), were purified from the leaves of tropic Rhodomyrtus tomentosa. The structures and absolute configurations of these new isolates were unequivocally established by comprehensive analyses of their spectroscopic data (NMR and HRESIMS), ECD calculation, and single crystal X-ray diffraction. Structurally, 3a/3b shared a rare C-5' formyl group, whereas 6a/6b possessed a unique C-7' aromatic ring. In addition, 7a/7b and 8a/8b were rare phloroglucinol trimers with a bis-furan and a C-6' hemiketal group. Pharmacologically, the mixture of 3a and 3b showed the most potent human acetylcholinesterase (hAChE) inhibitory activity with an IC50 value of 1.21 ± 0.16 μM. The molecular docking studies of 3a and 3b in the hAChE binding sites were performed, displaying good agreement with the in vitro inhibitory effects. In addition, the mixture of 3a and 3b displayed the most significant anti-MRSA (methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus) with MIC and MBC values of both 0.50 μg/mL, and scanning electron microscope (SEM) studies revealed that they could destroy the biofilm structures of MRSA. The findings provide potential candidates for the further development of anti-AD and anti-bacterial agents.

440. Multiomic prediction of therapeutic targets for human diseases associated with protein phase separation.
Abstract: The phenomenon of protein phase separation (PPS) underlies a wide range of cellular functions. Correspondingly, the dysregulation of the PPS process has been associated with numerous human diseases. To enable therapeutic interventions based on the regulation of this association, possible targets should be identified. For this purpose, we present an approach that combines the multiomic PandaOmics platform with the FuzDrop method to identify PPS-prone disease-associated proteins. Using this approach, we prioritize candidates with high PandaOmics and FuzDrop scores using a profiling method that accounts for a wide range of parameters relevant for disease mechanism and pharmacological intervention. We validate the differential phase separation behaviors of three predicted Alzheimer's disease targets (MARCKS, CAMKK2, and p62) in two cell models of this disease. Overall, the approach that we present generates a list of possible therapeutic targets for human diseases associated with the dysregulation of the PPS process.

441. Intrinsic signal optoretinography revealing AD-induced retinal photoreceptor hyperexcitability before a detectable morphological abnormality.
Abstract: Neuronal hyperexcitability promises an early biomarker of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, in vivo detection of neuronal hyperexcitability in the brain is technically challenging. The retina, one part of the central nervous system, presents a unique window for noninvasive monitoring of the brain function. This study aims to test the feasibility of using intrinsic signal optoretinography (ORG) for mapping retinal hyperexcitability associated with early-stage AD. Custom-designed optical coherence tomography (OCT) was employed for both morphological measurement and functional ORG of wild-type mice and 3xTg-AD mice. Comparative analysis revealed AD-induced retinal photoreceptor hyperexcitability prior to detectable structural degeneration.

442. The role of Lactobacillus in inflammatory bowel disease: from actualities to prospects.
Abstract: Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD), a chronic nonspecific intestinal inflammatory disease, is comprised of Ulcerative Colitis (UC) and Crohn's Disease (CD). IBD is closely related to a systemic inflammatory reaction and affects the progression of many intestinal and extraintestinal diseases. As one of the representative bacteria for probiotic-assisted therapy in IBD, multiple strains of Lactobacillus have been proven to alleviate intestinal damage and strengthen the intestinal immunological barrier, epithelial cell barrier, and mucus barrier. Lactobacillus also spares no effort in the alleviation of IBD-related diseases such as Colitis-associated Colorectal cancer (CAC), Alzheimer's Disease (AD), Depression, Anxiety, Autoimmune Hepatitis (AIH), and so on via gut-brain axis and gut-liver axis. This article aims to discuss the role of Lactobacillus in IBD and IBD-related diseases, including its underlying mechanisms and related curative strategies from the present to the future.

443. Retraction Note: Preservation of dendritic spine morphology and postsynaptic signaling markers after treatment with solid lipid curcumin particles in the 5xFAD mouse model of Alzheimer's amyloidosis.
Abstract: Abstract not available for PMID: 37773163

444. Neuronal MHC-I complex is destabilized by amyloid-β and its implications in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: The expression of major histocompatibility complex I (MHC-I) in neurons has recently been shown to regulate neurite outgrowth and synaptic plasticity. However, its contribution to neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains largely unknown.

445. Characterization the prognosis role and effects of snoRNAs in melanoma patients.
Abstract: Melanoma is a melanocyte-derived malignant cancer and is known for its early metastasis and high mortality rates. It is a highly cutaneous tumour disease that could be related to the abnormal immune microenvironment, and the identification of reliable diagnostic and prognostic markers is crucial for improving patient outcomes. In the search for biomarkers, various types of RNAs have been discovered and recognized as reliable prognostic markers. Among these, small nucleolar RNAs (snoRNAs) have emerged as a promising avenue for studying early diagnosis and prognostic markers in tumours due to their widespread presence in tissues, tumour specificity and stability. In our study, we analysed snoRNAs data from melanoma samples in the TCGA-SKCM cohort and developed a prognostic model comprising 12 snoRNAs (SNORD9, SNORA31, SNORD14E, SNORA14A, SNORA5A, SNORD83A, SNORA75, AL096855, AC007684, SNORD14A, SNORA65 and AC004839). This model exhibited unique prognostic accuracy and demonstrated a significant correlation with the immune infiltration tumour microenvironment. Additionally, analysis of the GSE213145 dataset, which explored the sensitivity and resistance of immune checkpoint inhibitors, further supported the potential of snoRNAs as prognostic markers for immunotherapy. Overall, our study contributes reliable prognostic and immune-related biomarkers for melanoma patients. These findings can offer valuable insights for the future discovery of novel melanoma treatment strategies and hold promise for improving clinical outcomes in melanoma patients.

446. The roles of FLOT1 in human diseases (Review).
Abstract: FLOT1, a scaffold protein of lipid rafts, is involved in several biological processes, including lipid raft protein‑-dependent or clathrin‑independent endocytosis, and the formation of hippocampal synapses, amongst others. Increasing evidence has shown that FLOT1 can function as both a cancer promoter and cancer suppressor dependent on the type of cancer. FLOT1 can affect the occurrence and development of several types of cancer by affecting epithelial‑mesenchymal transition, proliferation of cancer cells, and relevant signaling pathways, and is regulated by long intergenic non‑coding RNAs or microRNAs. In the nervous system, overexpression or abnormally low expression of FLOT1 may lead to the occurrence of neurological diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, major depressive disorder and other diseases. Additionally, it is also associated with dilated cardiomyopathy, pathogenic microbial infection, diabetes‑related diseases, and gynecological diseases, amongst other diseases. In the present review, the structure and localization of FLOT1, as well as the physiological processes it is involved in are reviewed, and then the upstream and downstream regulation of FLOT1 in human disease, particularly in different types of cancer and neurological diseases are discussed, with a focus on potentially targeting FLOT1 for the clinical treatment of several diseases.

447. Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists in experimental Alzheimer's disease models: a systematic review and meta-analysis of preclinical studies.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a degenerative disease of the nervous system. Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (GLP-1 RAs), a drug used to treat type 2 diabetes, have been shown to have neuroprotective effects. This systematic review and meta-analysis evaluated the effects and potential mechanisms of GLP-1 RAs in AD animal models. 26 studies were included by searching relevant studies from seven databases according to a predefined search strategy and inclusion criteria. Methodological quality was assessed using SYRCLE's risk of bias tool, and statistical analysis was performed using ReviewManger 5.3. The results showed that, in terms of behavioral tests, GLP-1 RAs could improve the learning and memory abilities of AD rodents; in terms of pathology, GLP-1 RAs could reduce Aβ deposition and phosphorylated tau levels in the brains of AD rodents. The therapeutic potential of GLP-1 RAs in AD involves a range of mechanisms that work synergistically to enhance the alleviation of various pathological manifestations associated with the condition. A total of five clinical trials were retrieved from ClinicalTrials.gov. More large-scale and high-quality preclinical trials should be conducted to more accurately assess the therapeutic effects of GLP-1 RAs on AD.

448. Past, present, and future of deep transcranial magnetic stimulation: A review in psychiatric and neurological disorders.
Abstract: Deep transcranial magnetic stimulation (DTMS) is a new non-invasive neuromodulation technique based on repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation tech-nology. The new H-coil has significant advantages in the treatment and mechanism research of psychiatric and neurological disorders. This is due to its deep stimulation site and wide range of action. This paper reviews the clinical progress of DTMS in psychiatric and neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, post-stroke motor dysfunction, aphasia, and other neurological disorders, as well as anxiety, depression, and schizophrenia.

449. Diagnosis of Parkinson's disease based on voice signals using SHAP and hard voting ensemble method.
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common progressive neurological condition after Alzheimer's. The significant number of individuals afflicted with this illness makes it essential to develop a method to diagnose the conditions in their early phases. PD is typically identified from motor symptoms or via other Neuroimaging techniques. Expensive, time-consuming, and unavailable to the general public, these methods are not very accurate. Another issue to be addressed is the black-box nature of machine learning methods that needs interpretation. These issues encourage us to develop a novel technique using Shapley additive explanations (SHAP) and Hard Voting Ensemble Method based on voice signals to diagnose PD more accurately. Another purpose of this study is to interpret the output of the model and determine the most important features in diagnosing PD. The present article uses Pearson Correlation Coefficients to understand the relationship between input features and the output. Input features with high correlation are selected and then classified by the Extreme Gradient Boosting, Light Gradient Boosting Machine, Gradient Boosting, and Bagging. Moreover, the weights in Hard Voting Ensemble Method are determined based on the performance of the mentioned classifiers. At the final stage, it uses SHAP to determine the most important features in PD diagnosis. The effectiveness of the proposed method is validated using 'Parkinson Dataset with Replicated Acoustic Features' from the UCI machine learning repository. It has achieved an accuracy of 85.42%. The findings demonstrate that the proposed method outperformed state-of-the-art approaches and can assist physicians in diagnosing Parkinson's cases.

450. The Role of cAMP-Dependent Intracellular Signaling Pathways in the Regulation of the Functions of Neural Stem Cells and Neuroglial Cells in Amyloid-β-Induced Neurodegeneration.
Abstract: Under conditions of neurodegeneration modeled in vitro by the β-amyloid peptide-(25-35) fragment (Aβ25-35), we studied the role of individual links of cAMP-dependent intracellular signaling pathways in determining the proliferation and differentiation status of neural stem cells (NSCs) and colony-stimulating activity of supernatants from neuroglial cells. The important role of intracellular cAMP and PKA in the inhibition of the progression of the NSC cell cycle and stimulation of the process of their specialization induced by Aβ25-35 was found. The selective ability of PKA to block the production of factors constituting colony-stimulating activity by neuroglial cells under conditions of their cultivation in vitro with a neurotoxic agent was revealed. Our results suggests that inhibitors of adenylate cyclase and PKA can increase the degree of implementation of the growth potential of NSCs and conjugation of the processes of their proliferation and differentiation in Alzheimer's disease. At the same time, selective PKA blockers can also induce the production of NSC-stimulating factors by neuroglial cells.

451. Computer aided progression detection model based on optimized deep LSTM ensemble model and the fusion of multivariate time series data.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia. Early and accurate detection of AD is crucial to plan for disease modifying therapies that could prevent or delay the conversion to sever stages of the disease. As a chronic disease, patient's multivariate time series data including neuroimaging, genetics, cognitive scores, and neuropsychological battery provides a complete profile about patient's status. This data has been used to build machine learning and deep learning (DL) models for the early detection of the disease. However, these models still have limited performance and are not stable enough to be trusted in real medical settings. Literature shows that DL models outperform classical machine learning models, but ensemble learning has proven to achieve better results than standalone models. This study proposes a novel deep stacking framework which combines multiple DL models to accurately predict AD at an early stage. The study uses long short-term memory (LSTM) models as base models over patient's multivariate time series data to learn the deep longitudinal features. Each base LSTM classifier has been optimized using the Bayesian optimizer using different feature sets. As a result, the final optimized ensembled model employed heterogeneous base models that are trained on heterogeneous data. The performance of the resulting ensemble model has been explored using a cohort of 685 patients from the University of Washington's National Alzheimer's Coordinating Center dataset. Compared to the classical machine learning models and base LSTM classifiers, the proposed ensemble model achieves the highest testing results (i.e., 82.02, 82.25, 82.02, and 82.12 for accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-score, respectively). The resulting model enhances the performance of the state-of-the-art literature, and it could be used to build an accurate clinical decision support tool that can assist domain experts for AD progression detection.

452. d-Amino acids: new clinical pathways for brain diseases.
Abstract: Free d-amino acids (d-AAs) are emerging as a novel and important class of signaling molecules in many organs, including the brain and endocrine systems. There has been considerable progress in our understanding of the fundamental roles of these atypical messengers, with increasingly recognized implications in a wide range of neuropathologies, including schizophrenia (SCZ), epilepsy, Alzheimer's disease (AD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), substance abuse, and chronic pain, among others. Research has enabled the discovery that d-serine, d-aspartate and more recently d-cysteine are essential for the healthy development and function of the central nervous system (CNS). We discuss recent progress that has profoundly transformed our vision of numerous physiological processes but has also shown how d-AAs are now offering therapeutic promise in clinical settings for several human diseases.

453. Deep learning combining FDG-PET and neurocognitive data accurately predicts MCI conversion to Alzheimer's dementia 3-year post MCI diagnosis.
Abstract: This study reports a novel deep learning approach to predict mild cognitive impairment (MCI) conversion to Alzheimer's dementia (AD) within three years using whole-brain fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) and cognitive scores (CS).

454. Vitamin B12 reversed anxiety and depression induced by adolescent nicotine withdrawal through alteration the inflammatory, oxidative and serotoninergic profiles in male rats.
Abstract: The present study aims to assess the effect of vitamin B12 (Vit B12) on depression-like behavior caused by nicotine (Nic) withdrawal, which is more likely due to the anxiogenic effect of Nic in adolescent male rats, through assessing behavioral and biochemical analysis.

455. Inhibition mechanism of fisetin on acetylcholinesterase and its synergistic effect with galantamine.
Abstract: The search for acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitors produced by natural sources is of great significance for the prevention and therapy of Alzheimer's disease and has been widely concerned. In this study, fisetin, a flavonoid compound of plant origin, displayed a mixed inhibition mode on AChE (IC50 = 8.88 ± 0.14 μM). Fluorescence spectra analysis revealed that fisetin statically quenched AChE fluorescence, and the ground state complex was formed by hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic interactions. Circular dichroism assays showed that fisetin induced AChE structure loosened with a decrease in α-helix structure (from 20.6 % to 19.5 %). Computer simulation exhibited that fisetin bound to both the peripheral anionic site (PAS) and the catalytic active site (CAS) and increased the stability of the AChE. Interestingly, the combination of fisetin and galantamine enhanced the binding affinity between AChE and galantamine and induced AChE structure further loosened, while the inhibition mode was still the mixed type. The heatmap analysis indicated that galantamine (0.2 μM) combined with fisetin (2.25 μM) had a significant synergy on AChE inhibition, probably because fisetin binding at the PAS-AChE induced conformation changes of the gorge and CAS, which enhanced galantamine binding affinity with CAS, and a further loose structure of AChE was induced by the mixture, so finally the interaction between the substrate and AChE was strongly affected. This work may offer a theoretical reference for the functional research of fisetin as a potential AChE inhibitor and an enhanced supplement for galantamine.

456. Multi-layered transcriptomic analysis reveals a pivotal role of FMR1 and other developmental genes in Alzheimer's disease-associated brain ceRNA network.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an increasingly neurodegenerative disorder that causes progressive cognitive decline and memory impairment. Despite extensive research, the underlying causes of late-onset AD (LOAD) are still in progress. This study aimed to establish a network of competing regulatory interactions involving circular RNAs (circRNAs), microRNAs (miRNAs), RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), and messenger RNAs (mRNAs) connected to LOAD. A systematic analysis of publicly available expression data was conducted to identify integrated differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from the hippocampus of LOAD patients. Subsequently, gene co-expression analysis identified modules comprising highly expressed DEGs that act cooperatively. The competition between co-expressed DEGs and miRNAs/RBPs and the simultaneous interactions between circRNA and miRNA/RBP revealed a complex ceRNA network responsible for post-transcriptional regulation in LOAD. Hippocampal expression data for miRNAs, circRNAs, and RBPs were used to filter relevant relationships for AD. An integrated topological score was used to identify the highly connected hub gene, from which a brain core ceRNA subnetwork was generated. The Fragile X Messenger Ribonucleoprotein 1 (FMR1) coding for the RBP FMRP emerged as the prominent driver gene in this subnetwork. FMRP has been previously related to AD but not in a ceRNA network context. Also, the substantial number of neurodevelopmental genes in the ceRNA subnetwork and their related biological pathways strengthen that AD shares common pathological mechanisms with developmental conditions. Our results enhance the current knowledge about the convergent ceRNA regulatory pathways underlying AD and provide potential targets for identifying early biomarkers and developing novel therapeutic interventions.

457. Addressing the Chronic Pain-Early Cognitive Decline Comorbidity Among Older Adults: Protocol for the Active Brains Remote Efficacy Trial.
Abstract: Chronic pain and early cognitive decline, which are costly to treat and highly prevalent among older adults, commonly co-occur, exacerbate one another over time, and can accelerate the development and progression of Alzheimer disease and related dementias. We developed the first mind-body activity program (Active Brains [AB]) tailored to the needs of older adults with chronic pain and early cognitive decline. Results from our previous study strongly supported the feasibility of conducting AB remotely and provided evidence for improvements in outcomes.

458. Primary Care Pracitioner Perspectives on the Role of Primary Care in Dementia Diagnosis and Care.
Abstract: Although the barriers to dementia care in primary care are well characterized, primary care practitioner (PCP) perspectives could be used to support the design of values-aligned dementia care pathways that strengthen the role of primary care.

459. Physical activity and exercise for the prevention and management of mild cognitive impairment and dementia: a collaborative international guideline.
Abstract: Physical activity and exercise have been suggested as effective interventions for the prevention and management of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and dementia, but there are no international guidelines.

460. Neurofilament light chain on intensive care admission is an independent predictor of mortality in COVID-19: a prospective multicenter study.
Abstract: Neurofilament light chain (NfL), glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and total-tau protein (tau) are novel blood biomarkers of neurological injury, and may be used to predict outcomes in critical COVID-19.

461. A Comprehensive Review of Essential Oils and Their Pharmacological Activities in Neurological Disorders: Exploring Neuroprotective Potential.
Abstract: Numerous studies have demonstrated essential oils' diverse chemical compositions and pharmacological properties encompassing antinociceptive, anxiolytic-like, and anticonvulsant activities, among other notable effects. The utilization of essential oils, whether inhaled, orally ingested, or applied topically, has commonly been employed as adjunctive therapy for individuals experiencing anxiety, insomnia, convulsions, pain, and cognitive impairment. The utilization of synthetic medications in the treatment of various disorders and symptoms is associated with a wide array of negative consequences. Consequently, numerous research groups across the globe have been prompted to explore the efficacy of natural alternatives such as essential oils. This review provides a comprehensive overview of the existing literature on the pharmacological properties of essential oils and their derived compounds and the underlying mechanisms responsible for these observed effects. The primary emphasis is on essential oils and their constituents, specifically targeting the nervous system and exhibiting significant potential in treating neurodegenerative disorders. The current state of research in this field is characterized by its preliminary nature, highlighting the necessity for a more comprehensive overlook of the therapeutic advantages of essential oils and their components. Integrating essential oils into conventional therapies can enhance the effectiveness of comprehensive treatment regimens for neurodegenerative diseases, offering a more holistic approach to addressing the multifaceted nature of these conditions.

462. The Role of NMDA Receptor Subunits in the Effect of Memantine on the Brain of Healthy Animals.
Abstract: The non-competitive NMDA glutamate receptor antagonist memantine has neuroprotective properties and is the first non-cholinergic drug approved for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. The purpose of this work was to test the hypothesis that injections of memantine to healthy animals can affect the subunit composition of NMDA receptors in the brain, which may explain the effects of its chronic administration. For this, the expression of subunits GluN1, GluN2A, GluN2B, and GluN2C was studied in the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex of rats after single or five subchronic injections of memantine. The results showed that the GluN2C subunit (GRIN2C) plays an important role in the effects of memantine; against the background of memantine treatment, the expression of this subunit markedly decreased in the prefrontal cortex, but not in the hippocampus, which significantly affected the excitation/inhibition balance in cortical structures.

463. Modeling of Alzheimer's Disease to Study the Efficacy of Cell Therapy (Review).
Abstract: We analyzed the main approaches to the modeling of Alzheimer's disease for studying the effectiveness of cell therapy. Recent advances in regenerative medicine in the field of neuroscience create prospects for the use of various cell preparations for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Experimental data on the use of neural stem/progenitor cells, mesenchymal stem cells, embryonic stem cells, and induced pluripotent stem cells in various models of Alzheimer's disease are presented. Of particular importance is the standardization of protocols. The use of a standardized protocol in modeling of Alzheimer's disease will allow a comparative analysis of the effectiveness and safety of treatment to identify the optimal cell preparation. The data obtained on experimental animals can form the basis for further preclinical and clinical studies of cell therapy for Alzheimer's disease.

464. A multidomain intervention against cognitive decline in an at-risk-population in Germany: Results from the cluster-randomized AgeWell.de trial.
Abstract: We investigated the effectiveness of a multidomain intervention to preserve cognitive function in older adults at risk for dementia in Germany in a cluster-randomized trial.

465. Artificial intelligence for neurodegenerative experimental models.
Abstract: Experimental models are essential tools in neurodegenerative disease research. However, the translation of insights and drugs discovered in model systems has proven immensely challenging, marred by high failure rates in human clinical trials.

466. Bidirectional Effect of Triphala on Modulating Gut-Brain Axis to Improve Cognition in the Murine Model of Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: The emerging role of gut microbiota and their metabolites in the modulation of the gut-brain axis has received much attention as a new hope for the treatment of hard-to-treat chronic neurodegenerative diseases like Alzheimer's disease. The naturally occurring polyphenols can restore the gut-brain axis by modulating gut microbiota and brain neurotransmitters. The Indian traditional medicine Triphala, a rich source of polyphenols, has been used on humans based on Prakriti or disease conditions for many years.

467. Personalized clinical managements through exploring circulating neural cells and electroencephalography.
Abstract: Since an initial diagnosis of Alzheimer disease (AD) in 1907, early detection, was unavailable through 116 years. Up-regulation of V-Ets erythroblastosis virus E26 oncogene homolog 2 (Ets2) is capable to enhance neuronal susceptibility and degeneration. Protein expression (PE) of Ets2 has functional impact on AD and Down's syndrome, with diverse intensity. PE of Ets2 has an influential pathogenic impact on AD. Clinical aspects of neurological disorders directly interact with psychological maladies. However, deterioration requires an early management including programmed based protection.

468. A potential therapeutic target: The role of neutrophils in the central nervous system.
Abstract: Neutrophils play a critical role in immune defense as the first recruited and most abundant leukocytes in the innate immune system. As such, regulation of neutrophil effector functions have strong implications on immunity. These cells display a wide heterogeneity of function, including both inflammatory and immunomodulatory roles. Neutrophils commonly infiltrate the central nervous system (CNS) in response to varied pathological conditions. There is still little understanding of the role these cells play in the CNS in such conditions. In the present review, we will summarize what is known of neutrophil's role in cancer and Alzheimer's disease (AD), with a focus on highlighting the gaps in our understanding.

469. PDE5 inhibitor drugs for use in dementia.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) remain a major health-care challenge with few licensed medications. Repurposing existing drugs may afford prevention and treatment. Phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) is widely expressed in vascular myocytes, neurons, and glia. Potent, selective, Food and Drug Administration-approved PDE5 inhibitors are already in clinical use (sildenafil, vardenafil, tadalafil) as vasodilators in erectile dysfunction and pulmonary arterial hypertension. Animal data indicate cognitive benefits of PDE5 inhibitors. In humans, real-world patient data suggest that sildenafil and vardenafil are associated with reduced dementia risk. While a recent clinical trial of acute tadalafil on cerebral blood flow was neutral, there may be chronic actions of PDE5 inhibition on cerebrovascular or synaptic function. We provide a perspective on the potential utility of PDE5 inhibitors for ADRD. We conclude that further prospective clinical trials with PDE5 inhibitors are warranted. The choice of drug will depend on brain penetration, tolerability in older people, half-life, and off-target effects.

470. Pleiotropic Effects of Influenza Vaccination.
Abstract: Influenza vaccines are designed to mimic natural influenza virus exposure and stimulate a long-lasting immune response to future infections. The evolving nature of the influenza virus makes vaccination an important and efficacious strategy to reduce healthcare-related complications of influenza. Several lines of evidence indicate that influenza vaccination may induce nonspecific effects, also referred to as heterologous or pleiotropic effects, that go beyond protection against infection. Different explanations are proposed, including the upregulation and downregulation of cytokines and epigenetic reprogramming in monocytes and natural killer cells, imprinting an immunological memory in the innate immune system, a phenomenon termed "trained immunity". Also, cross-reactivity between related stimuli and bystander activation, which entails activation of B and T lymphocytes without specific recognition of antigens, may play a role. In this review, we will discuss the possible nonspecific effects of influenza vaccination in cardiovascular disease, type 1 diabetes, cancer, and Alzheimer's disease, future research questions, and potential implications. A discussion of the potential effects on infections by other pathogens is beyond the scope of this review.

471. Chemical Profiling and Antioxidant and Anti-Amyloid Capacities of Salvia fruticosa Extracts from Greece.
Abstract: An increasingly common ailment in elderly persons is Alzheimer's disease (AD), a neurodegenerative illness. Present treatment is restricted to alleviating symptoms; hence, there is a requirement to develop an effective approach to AD treatment. Salvia fruticosa (SF) is a medicinal plant with a documented neuroprotective potential. To identify extracts of increased neuroprotectivity, we partitioned the methanolic extract of SF aerial parts from Greece into several fractions, by employing solvents of different polarities. The fractions were chemically identified and evaluated for their antioxidancy and anti-neurotoxic potential against amyloid beta peptides 25-35 (Aβ25-35). Carnosol and carnosic acid were among the prominent compounds, while all partitions showed significant antioxidant capacity, with the diethyl ether and ethyl acetate partitions being the most potent. These, along with the aqueous and the butanolic fractions, demonstrated statistically significant anti-neurotoxic potential. Thus, our findings further validate the neuroprotective potential of SF and support its ethnopharmacological usage as an antioxidant. The particular properties found define SF as a promising source for obtaining extracts or bioactive compounds, possibly beneficial for generating AD-related functional foods or medications. Finally, our results encourage plant extract partitioning for acquiring fractions of enhanced biological properties.

472. Microglial-Targeted nSMase2 Inhibitor Fails to Reduce Tau Propagation in PS19 Mice.
Abstract: The progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD) correlates with the propagation of hyperphosphorylated tau (pTau) from the entorhinal cortex to the hippocampus and neocortex. Neutral sphingomyelinase2 (nSMase2) is critical in the biosynthesis of extracellular vesicles (EVs), which play a role in pTau propagation. We recently conjugated DPTIP, a potent nSMase2 inhibitor, to hydroxyl-PAMAM-dendrimer nanoparticles that can improve brain delivery. We showed that dendrimer-conjugated DPTIP (D-DPTIP) robustly inhibited the spread of pTau in an AAV-pTau propagation model. To further evaluate its efficacy, we tested D-DPTIP in the PS19 transgenic mouse model. Unexpectantly, D-DPTIP showed no beneficial effect. To understand this discrepancy, we assessed D-DPTIP's brain localization. Using immunofluorescence and fluorescence-activated cell-sorting, D-DPTIP was found to be primarily internalized by microglia, where it selectively inhibited microglial nSMase2 activity with no effect on other cell types. Furthermore, D-DPTIP inhibited microglia-derived EV release into plasma without affecting other brain-derived EVs. We hypothesize that microglial targeting allowed D-DPTIP to inhibit tau propagation in the AAV-hTau model, where microglial EVs play a central role in propagation. However, in PS19 mice, where tau propagation is independent of microglial EVs, it had a limited effect. Our findings confirm microglial targeting with hydroxyl-PAMAM dendrimers and highlight the importance of understanding cell-specific mechanisms when designing targeted AD therapies.

473. A Promising Approach: Magnetic Nanosystems for Alzheimer's Disease Theranostics.
Abstract: Among central nervous system (CNS) disorders, Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disorder and a major cause of dementia worldwide. The yet unclear etiology of AD and the high impenetrability of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) limit most therapeutic compounds from reaching the brain. Although many efforts have been made to effectively deliver drugs to the CNS, both invasive and noninvasive strategies employed often come with associated side effects. Nanotechnology-based approaches such as nanoparticles (NPs), which can act as multifunctional platforms in a single system, emerged as a potential solution for current AD theranostics. Among these, magnetic nanoparticles (MNPs) are an appealing strategy since they can act as contrast agents for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and as drug delivery systems. The nanocarrier functionalization with specific moieties, such as peptides, proteins, and antibodies, influences the particles' interaction with brain endothelial cell constituents, facilitating transport across the BBB and possibly increasing brain penetration. In this review, we introduce MNP-based systems, combining surface modifications with the particles' physical properties for molecular imaging, as a novel neuro-targeted strategy for AD theranostics. The main goal is to highlight the potential of multifunctional MNPs and their advances as a dual nanotechnological diagnosis and treatment platform for neurodegenerative disorders.

474. Therapeutic Implications of Renin-Angiotensin System Modulators in Alzheimer's Dementia.
Abstract: The Renin-Angiotensin System (RAS) has attracted considerable interest beyond its traditional cardiovascular role due to emerging data indicating its potential involvement in neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's dementia (AD). This review investigates the therapeutic implications of RAS modulators, specifically focusing on angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs), angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs), and renin inhibitors in AD. ACEIs, commonly used for hypertension, show promise in AD by reducing angiotensin (Ang) II levels. This reduction is significant as Ang II contributes to neuroinflammation, oxidative stress, and β-amyloid (Aβ) accumulation, all implicated in AD pathogenesis. ARBs, known for vasodilation, exhibit neuroprotection by blocking Ang II receptors, improving cerebral blood flow and cognitive decline in AD models. Renin inhibitors offer a novel approach by targeting the initial RAS step, displaying anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects that mitigate AD degeneration. Preclinical studies demonstrate RAS regulation's favorable impact on neuroinflammation, neuronal damage, cognitive function, and Aβ metabolism. Clinical trials on RAS modulators in AD are limited, but with promising results, ARBs being more effective that ACEIs in reducing cognitive decline. The varied roles of ACEIs, ARBs, and renin inhibitors in RAS modulation present a promising avenue for AD therapeutic intervention, requiring further research to potentially transform AD treatment strategies.

475. A Concise Review of the Recent Structural Explorations of Chromones as MAO-B Inhibitors: Update from 2017 to 2023.
Abstract: Monoamine oxidases (MAOs) are a family of flavin adenine dinucleotide-dependent enzymes that catalyze the oxidative deamination of a wide range of endogenous and exogenous amines. Multiple neurological conditions, including Parkinson's disease (PD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD), are closely correlated with altered biogenic amine concentrations in the brain caused by MAO. Toxic byproducts of this oxidative breakdown, including hydrogen peroxide, reactive oxygen species, and ammonia, can cause oxidative damage and mitochondrial dysfunction in brain cells. Certain MAO-B blockers have been recognized as effective treatment options for managing neurological conditions, including AD and PD. There is still a pressing need to find potent therapeutic molecules to fight these disorders. However, the focus of neurodegeneration studies has recently increased, and certain compounds are now in clinical trials. Chromones are promising structures for developing therapeutic compounds, especially in neuronal degeneration. This review focuses on the MAO-B inhibitory potential of several synthesized chromones and their structural activity relationships. Concerning the discovery of a novel class of effective chromone-based selective MAO-B-inhibiting agents, this review offers readers a better understanding of the most recent additions to the literature.

476. A Window to the Brain: The Retina to Monitor the Progression and Efficacy of Saffron Repron® Pre-Treatment in an LPS Model of Neuroinflammation and Memory Impairment.
Abstract: A mechanism shared by most neurodegenerative diseases, like Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), is neuroinflammation. It has been shown to have a link between cognitive impairment and retinal function under neuroinflammatory conditions, confirming the essential role of the retina as a window to the brain. Here, we characterize a mouse model of LPS-induced neuroinflammation describing the parallel deterioration of both memory and visual function. Then, we demonstrate, using the Novel Object Recognition test (NOR) and electroretinogram (ERG) recordings, that preventive, chronic treatment with saffron Repron® is able to reduce the neuroinflammation process and prevent the impairment of both cognitive and visual function. The improvement in behavioral and visual function is confirmed by the pattern of expression of neuroinflammation-related genes and related proteins where pre-treatment with Repron® saffron presents a positive modulation compared with that obtained in animals treated with LPS alone. These results hold for retinal tissue and partially in the brain, where it appears that the onset of damage was delayed. This trend underlines the critical role of the retina as a most sensitive portion of the central nervous system to LPS-induced damage and could be used as a "sensor" for the early detection of neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's.

477. Neuroprotective Effect of Nosustrophine in a 3xTg Mouse Model of Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Neurodegeneration, characterized by the progressive deterioration of neurons and glial cells, is a feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The present study aims to demonstrate that the onset and early progression of neurodegenerative processes in transgenic mice models of AD can be delayed by a cocktail of neurotrophic factors and derived peptides named Nosustrophine, a nootropic supplement made by a peptide complex extracted from the young porcine brain, ensuring neuroprotection and improving neuro-functional recovery. Experimental 3xTg-APP/Bin1/COPS5 transgenic mice models of AD were treated with Nosustrophine at two different early ages, and their neuropathological hallmark and behavior response were analyzed. Results showed that Nosustrophine increased the activity of the immune system and reduced pathological changes in the hippocampus and cortex by halting the development of amyloid plaques, mainly seen in mice of 3-4 months of age, indicating that its effect is more preventive than therapeutic. Taken together, the results indicate the potent neuroprotective activity of Nosustrophine and its stimulating effects on neuronal plasticity. This study shows for the first time an effective therapy using nootropic supplements against degenerative diseases, although further investigation is needed to understand their molecular pathways.

478. An Innovative Approach to Address Neurodegenerative Diseases through Kinase-Targeted Therapies: Potential for Designing Covalent Inhibitors.
Abstract: Owing to the dysregulation of protein kinase activity in various diseases such as cancer and autoimmune, cardiovascular, neurodegenerative, and inflammatory conditions, the protein kinase family has emerged as a crucial drug target in the 21st century. Notably, many kinases have been targeted to address cancer and neurodegenerative diseases using conventional ATP-mimicking kinase inhibitors. Likewise, irreversible covalent inhibitors have also been developed for different types of cancer. The application of covalent modification to target proteins has led to significant advancements in the treatment of cancer. However, while covalent drugs have significantly impacted medical treatment, their potential for neurodegenerative diseases remains largely unexplored. Neurodegenerative diseases present significant risks to brain function, leading to progressive deterioration in sensory, motor, and cognitive abilities. Alzheimer's disease (AD), Huntington's disease (HD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and multiple sclerosis (MS) are among the various examples of such disorders. Numerous research groups have already reported insights through reviews and research articles on FDA-approved covalent inhibitors, revealing their mechanisms and the specific covalent warheads that preferentially interact with particular amino acid residues in intricate detail. Hence, in this review, we aim to provide a concise summary of these critical topics. This summary endeavors to guide medicinal chemists in their quest to design covalent inhibitors for protein kinases, specifically targeting neurodegenerative diseases.

479. Benzimidazole-Based Schiff Base Hybrid Scaffolds: A Promising Approach to Develop Multi-Target Drugs for Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: A series of benzimidazole-based Schiff base derivatives (1-18) were synthesized and structurally elucidated through 1H NMR, 13C NMR and HREI-MS analysis. Subsequently, these synthetic derivatives were subjected to evaluation for their inhibitory capabilities against acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE). All these derivatives showed significant inhibition against AChE with an IC50 value in the range of 123.9 ± 10.20 to 342.60 ± 10.60 µM and BuChE in the range of 131.30 ± 9.70 to 375.80 ± 12.80 µM in comparison with standard Donepezil, which has IC50 values of 243.76 ± 5.70 µM (AChE) and 276.60 ± 6.50 µM (BuChE), respectively. Compounds 3, 5 and 9 exhibited potent inhibition against both AChE and BuChE. Molecular docking studies were used to validate and establish the structure-activity relationship of the synthesized derivatives.

480. Targeting Autophagy, Apoptosis, and SIRT1/Nrf2 Axis with Topiramate Underlies Its Neuroprotective Effect against Cadmium-Evoked Cognitive Deficits in Rats.
Abstract: Cadmium is an environmental toxicant that instigates cognitive deficits with excessive glutamate excitatory neuroactivity in the brain. Topiramate, a glutamate receptor antagonist, has displayed favorable neuroprotection against epilepsy, cerebral ischemia, and Huntington's disease; however, its effect on cadmium neurotoxicity remains to be investigated. In this study, topiramate was tested for its potential to combat the cognitive deficits induced by cadmium in rats with an emphasis on hippocampal oxidative insult, apoptosis, and autophagy. After topiramate intake (50 mg/kg/day; p.o.) for 8 weeks, behavioral disturbances and molecular changes in the hippocampal area were explored. Herein, Morris water maze, Y-maze, and novel object recognition test revealed that topiramate rescued cadmium-induced memory/learning deficits. Moreover, topiramate significantly lowered hippocampal histopathological damage scores. Mechanistically, topiramate significantly replenished hippocampal GLP-1 and dampened Aβ42 and p-tau neurotoxic cues. Notably, it significantly diminished hippocampal glutamate content and enhanced acetylcholine and GABA neurotransmitters. The behavioral recovery was prompted by hippocampal suppression of the pro-oxidant events with notable activation of SIRT1/Nrf2/HO-1 axis. Moreover, topiramate inactivated GSK-3β and dampened the hippocampal apoptotic changes. In tandem, stimulation of hippocampal pro-autophagy events, including Beclin 1 upregulation, was triggered by topiramate that also activated AMPK/mTOR pathway. Together, the pro-autophagic, antioxidant, and anti-apoptotic features of topiramate contributed to its neuroprotective properties in rats intoxicated with cadmium. Therefore, it may be useful to mitigate cadmium-induced cognitive deficits.

481. Design, Synthesis, In Silico Studies and In Vitro Evaluation of New Indole- and/or Donepezil-like Hybrids as Multitarget-Directed Agents for Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is considered a complex neurodegenerative condition which warrants the development of multitargeted drugs to tackle the key pathogenetic mechanisms of the disease. In this study, two novel series of melatonin- and donepezil-based hybrid molecules with hydrazone (3a-r) or sulfonyl hydrazone (5a-l) fragments were designed, synthesized, and evaluated as multifunctional ligands against AD-related neurodegenerative mechanisms. Two lead compounds (3c and 3d) exhibited a well-balanced multifunctional profile, demonstrating intriguing acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibition, promising antioxidant activity assessed by DPPH, ABTS, and FRAP methods, as well as the inhibition of lipid peroxidation in the linoleic acid system. Compound 3n, possessing two indole scaffolds, showed the highest activity against butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) and a high selectivity index (SI = 47.34), as well as a pronounced protective effect in H2O2-induced oxidative stress in SH-SY5Y cells. Moreover, compounds 3c, 3d, and 3n showed low neurotoxicity against malignant neuroblastoma cell lines of human (SH-SY5Y) and murine (Neuro-2a) origin, as well as normal murine fibroblast cells (CCL-1) that indicate the in vitro biocompatibility of the experimental compounds. Furthermore, compounds 3c, 3d, and 3n were capable of penetrating the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in the experimental PAMPA-BBB study. The molecular docking showed that compound 3c could act as a ligand to both MT1 and MT2 receptors, as well as to AchE and BchE enzymes. Taken together, those results outline compounds 3c, 3d, and 3n as promising prototypes in the search of innovative compounds for the treatment of AD-associated neurodegeneration with oxidative stress. This study demonstrates that hydrazone derivatives with melatonin and donepezil are appropriate for further development of new AChE/BChE inhibitory agents.

482. New Biotinylated GHK and Related Copper(II) Complex: Antioxidant and Antiglycant Properties In Vitro against Neurodegenerative Disorders.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative diseases affect millions of people worldwide. The failure of the enzymatic degradation, the oxidative stress, the dyshomeostasis of metal ions, among many other biochemical events, might trigger the pathological route, but the onset of these pathologies is unknown. Multi-target and multifunctional molecules could address several biomolecular issues of the pathologies. The tripeptide GHK, a bioactive fragment of several proteins, and the related copper(II) complex have been largely used for many purposes, from cosmetic to therapeutic applications. GHK derivatives were synthesized to increase the peptide stability and improve the target delivery. Herein we report the synthesis of a new biotin-GHK conjugate (BioGHK) through orthogonal reactions. BioGHK is still capable of coordinating copper(II), as observed by spectroscopic and spectrometric measurements. The spectroscopic monitoring of the copper-induced ascorbate oxidation was used to measure the antioxidant activity Cu(II)-BioGHK complex, whereas antiglycant activity of the ligand towards harmful reactive species was investigated using MALDI-TOF. The affinity of BioGHK for streptavidin was evaluated using a spectrophotometric assay and compared to that of biotin. Finally, the antiaggregant activity towards amyloid-β was evaluated using a turn-on fluorescent dye. BioGHK could treat and/or prevent several adverse biochemical reactions that characterize neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease.

483. Neuronal Nitric Oxide Synthase and Post-Translational Modifications in the Development of Central Nervous System Diseases: Implications and Regulation.
Abstract: In the Central Nervous System (CNS), Nitric Oxide (NO) is mainly biosynthesized by neuronal Nitric Oxide Synthase (nNOS). The dysregulated activation of nNOS in neurons is critical in the development of different conditions affecting the CNS. The excessive production of NO by nNOS is responsible for a number of proteins' post-translational modifications (PTMs), which can lead to aberrant biochemical pathways, impairing CNS functions. In this review, we briefly revise the main implications of dysregulated nNOS in the progression of the most prevalent CNS neurodegenerative disorders, i.e., Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease, as well as in the development of neuronal disorders. Moreover, a specific focus on compounds able to modulate nNOS activity as promising therapeutics to tackle different neuronal diseases is presented.

484. Recent Development of Novel Aminoethyl-Substituted Chalcones as Potential Drug Candidates for the Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: No drug on the market, as a single entity, participates in different pathways involved in the pathology of Alzheimer's disease. The current study is aimed at the exploration of multifunctional chalcone derivatives which can act on multiple targets involved in Alzheimer's disease. A series of novel aminoethyl-substituted chalcones have been developed using in silico approaches (scaffold morphing, molecular docking, and ADME) and reported synthetic methods. The synthesized analogs were characterized and evaluated biologically using different in vitro assays against AChE, AGEs, and radical formation. Among all compounds, compound PS-10 was found to have potent AChE inhibitory activity (IC50 = 15.3 nM), even more than the standard drug (IC50 = 15.68 nM). Further, the in vivo evaluation of PS-10 against STZ-induced dementia in rats showed memory improvement (Morris Water Maze test) in rats. Also, PS-10 inhibited STZ-induced brain AChE activity and oxidative stress, further strengthening the observed in vitro effects. Further, the molecular dynamic simulation studies displayed the stability of the PS-10 and AChE complex. The novel aminoethyl-substituted chalcones might be considered potential multifunctional anti-Alzheimer's molecules.

485. The Potential Neuroprotective Effect of Thymoquinone on Scopolamine-Induced In Vivo Alzheimer's Disease-like Condition: Mechanistic Insights.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder without effective treatment. Thymoquinone (TQ) has demonstrated potential in exhibiting anti-inflammatory, anti-cancer, and antioxidant characteristics. Despite TQ's neuroprotection effect, there is a scarcity of information regarding its application in AD research, and its molecular trajectories remain ambiguous. Thus, the objective of the current investigation was to examine the potential beneficial effects and underlying mechanisms of TQ in scopolamine (SCOP)-induced neuronal injury to mimic AD in vivo model.

486. Therapeutic Effects of Baicalin on Diseases Related to Gut-Brain Axis Dysfunctions.
Abstract: The gut-brain axis is an active area of research. Several representative diseases, including central nervous system disorders (Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and depression), metabolic disorders (obesity-related diseases), and intestinal disorders (inflammatory bowel disease and dysbiosis), are associated with the dysfunctional gut-brain axis. Baicalin, a bioactive flavonoid extracted from Scutellaria baicalensis, is reported to exert various pharmacological effects. This narrative review summarizes the molecular mechanisms and potential targets of baicalin in disorders of the gut-brain axis. Baicalin protects the central nervous system through anti-neuroinflammatory and anti-neuronal apoptotic effects, suppresses obesity through anti-inflammatory and antioxidant effects, and alleviates intestinal disorders through regulatory effects on intestinal microorganisms and short-chain fatty acid production. The bioactivities of baicalin are mediated through the gut-brain axis. This review comprehensively summarizes the regulatory role of baicalin in gut-brain axis disorders, laying a foundation for future research, although further confirmatory basic research is required.

487. Impact of Donepezil Supplementation on Alzheimer's Disease-like Pathology and Gut Microbiome in APP/PS1 Mice.
Abstract: Based on published information, the occurrence and development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are potentially related to gut microbiota changes. Donepezil hydrochloride (DH), which enhances cholinergic activity by blocking acetylcholinesterase (AChE), is one of the first-line drugs for AD treatment approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of the USA. However, the potential link between the effects of DH on the pathophysiological processes of AD and the gut microbiota remains unclear. In this study, pathological changes in the brain and colon, the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and AChE, and changes in intestinal flora were observed. The results showed that Aβ deposition in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus of AD mice was significantly decreased, while colonic inflammation was significantly alleviated by DH treatment. Concomitantly, SOD activity was significantly improved, while AChE was significantly reduced after DH administration. In addition, the gut microbiota community composition of AD mice was significantly altered after DH treatment. The relative abundance of Akkermansia in the AD group was 54.8% higher than that in the N group. The relative abundance of Akkermansia was increased by 18.3% and 53.8% in the AD_G group and the N_G group, respectively. Interestingly, Akkermansia showed a potential predictive value and might be a biomarker for AD. Molecular docking revealed the binding mode and major forces between DH and membrane proteins of Akkermansia. The overall results suggest a novel therapeutic mechanism for treating AD and highlight the critical role of gut microbiota in AD pathology.

488. Antioxidant, Antiglaucoma, Anticholinergic, and Antidiabetic Effects of Kiwifruit (Actinidia deliciosa) Oil: Metabolite Profile Analysis Using LC-HR/MS, GC/MS and GC-FID.
Abstract: Determining the antioxidant abilities and enzyme inhibition profiles of medicinally important plants and their oils is of great importance for a healthy life and the treatment of some common global diseases. Kiwifruit (Actinidia deliciosa) oil was examined and researched using several bioanalytical methods comprehensively for the first time in this research to determine its antioxidant, antiglaucoma, antidiabetic and anti-Alzheimer's capabilities. Additionally, the kiwifruit oil inhibitory effects on acetylcholinesterase (AChE), carbonic anhydrase II (CA II), and α-amylase, which are linked to a number of metabolic illnesses, were established. Furthermore, LC-HRMS analysis was used to assess the phenolic content of kiwifruit oil. It came to light that kiwifruit oil contained 26 different phenolic compounds. According to the LC-HRMS findings, kiwifruit oil is abundant in apigenin (74.24 mg/L oil), epigallocatechin (12.89 mg/L oil), caryophyllene oxide (12.89 mg/L oil), and luteolin (5.49 mg/L oil). In addition, GC-MS and GC-FID studies were used to ascertain the quantity and chemical composition of the essential oils contained in kiwifruit oil. Squalene (53.04%), linoleoyl chloride (20.28%), linoleic acid (2.67%), and palmitic acid (1.54%) were the most abundant compounds in kiwifruit oil. For radical scavenging activities of kiwifruit oil, 1,1-diphenyl-2-picryl-hydrazil (DPPH•) and 2,2'-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS•+) radicals scavenging techniques were examined. These methods effectively demonstrated the potent radical scavenging properties of kiwifruit oil (IC50: 48.55 μg/mL for DPPH•, and IC50: 77.00 μg/mL for ABTS•+ scavenging). Also, for reducing capabilities, iron (Fe3+), copper (Cu2+), and Fe3+-2,4,6-tri(2-pyridyl)-S-triazine (TPTZ) reducing abilities were studied. Moreover, kiwifruit oil showed a considerable inhibition effect towards hCA II (IC50: 505.83 μg/mL), AChE (IC50: 12.80 μg/mL), and α-amylase (IC50: 421.02 μg/mL). The results revealed that the use of kiwifruit oil in a pharmaceutical procedure has very important effects due to its antioxidant, anti-Alzheimer, antidiabetic, and antiglaucoma effects.

489. New Community and Sociohealth Challenges Arising from the Early Diagnosis of Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI).
Abstract: Population aging increases the risk of developing neurodegenerative diseases that cause cognitive impairment. Advances in clinical practice and greater social awareness of the importance of cognitive impairment have led to an increase in the number of people with early diagnosis, predementia. Increasing access to biomarkers to assess whether Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the underlying cause of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) has undoubted clinical benefits (access to potentially disease-modifying treatments, among others) but is also responsible for new social-health care challenges. Understanding the psychosocial impact of a diagnosis of MCI due to AD or another neurodegenerative disease is essential to create future strategies to reduce the emotional overload of patients, their risk of discrimination and stigmatization, and to favor their social inclusion. We present a narrative review of the diagnostic process of mild cognitive impairment in clinical practice, with a holistic person-centered approach, and discuss the implications of such diagnosis (benefits and risks) and strategies on how to address them.

490. Paving the Way for Predicting the Progression of Cognitive Decline: The Potential Role of Machine Learning Algorithms in the Clinical Management of Neurodegenerative Disorders.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of neurodegenerative disorder. The prodromal phase of AD is mild cognitive impairment (MCI). The capacity to predict the transitional phase from MCI to AD represents a challenge for the scientific community. The adoption of artificial intelligence (AI) is useful for diagnostic, predictive analysis starting from the clinical epidemiology of neurodegenerative disorders. We propose a Machine Learning Model (MLM) where the algorithms were trained on a set of neuropsychological, neurophysiological, and clinical data to predict the diagnosis of cognitive decline in both MCI and AD patients.

491. Cell Cycle Reactivation, at the Start of Neurodegeneration, Induced by Forskolin and Aniline in Differentiated Neuroblastoma Cells.
Abstract: A characteristic hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the intracellular accumulation of hyperphosphorylated tau protein, a phenomenon that appears to have associations with oxidative stress, double-stranded DNA breakage, and the de-condensation of heterochromatin. Re-entry into the cell division cycle appears to be involved in the onset of this neurodegenerative process. Indeed, the cell cycle cannot proceed regularly in the differentiated neurons leading to cell death. Here, we induced cell cycle reactivation in neuronal-like cells, obtained by neuroblastoma cells treated with retinoic acid, by exposure to forskolin or aniline. These compounds determine tau hyperphosphorylation or oxidative stress, respectively, resulting in the appearance of features resembling the start of neuronal degeneration typical of AD, such as tau hyperphosphorylation and re-entry into the cell cycle. Indeed, we detected an increased transcriptional level of cyclins and the appearance of a high number of mitotic cells. We also observed a delay in the initiation of the cell cycle when forskolin was co-administered with pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP). This delay was not observed when PACAP was co-administered with aniline. Our data demonstrate the relevance of tau hyperphosphorylation in initiating an ectopic cell cycle in differentiated neuronal cells, a condition that can lead to neurodegeneration. Moreover, we highlight the utility of neuroblastoma cell lines as an in vitro cellular model to test the possible neuroprotective effects of natural molecules.

492. From Homeostasis to Pathology: Decoding the Multifaceted Impact of Aquaporins in the Central Nervous System.
Abstract: Aquaporins (AQPs), integral membrane proteins facilitating selective water and solute transport across cell membranes, have been the focus of extensive research over the past few decades. Particularly noteworthy is their role in maintaining cellular homeostasis and fluid balance in neural compartments, as dysregulated AQP expression is implicated in various degenerative and acute brain pathologies. This article provides an exhaustive review on the evolutionary history, molecular classification, and physiological relevance of aquaporins, emphasizing their significance in the central nervous system (CNS). The paper journeys through the early studies of water transport to the groundbreaking discovery of Aquaporin 1, charting the molecular intricacies that make AQPs unique. It delves into AQP distribution in mammalian systems, detailing their selective permeability through permeability assays. The article provides an in-depth exploration of AQP4 and AQP1 in the brain, examining their contribution to fluid homeostasis. Furthermore, it elucidates the interplay between AQPs and the glymphatic system, a critical framework for waste clearance and fluid balance in the brain. The dysregulation of AQP-mediated processes in this system hints at a strong association with neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's Disease, idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus, and Alzheimer's Disease. This relationship is further explored in the context of acute cerebral events such as stroke and autoimmune conditions such as neuromyelitis optica (NMO). Moreover, the article scrutinizes AQPs at the intersection of oncology and neurology, exploring their role in tumorigenesis, cell migration, invasiveness, and angiogenesis. Lastly, the article outlines emerging aquaporin-targeted therapies, offering a glimpse into future directions in combatting CNS malignancies and neurodegenerative diseases.

493. Morphometric and Nanomechanical Screening of Peripheral Blood Cells with Atomic Force Microscopy for Label-Free Assessment of Alzheimer's Disease, Parkinson's Disease, and Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative disorders (NDDs) are complex, multifactorial disorders with significant social and economic impact in today's society. NDDs are predicted to become the second-most common cause of death in the next few decades due to an increase in life expectancy but also to a lack of early diagnosis and mainly symptomatic treatment. Despite recent advances in diagnostic and therapeutic methods, there are yet no reliable biomarkers identifying the complex pathways contributing to these pathologies. The development of new approaches for early diagnosis and new therapies, together with the identification of non-invasive and more cost-effective diagnostic biomarkers, is one of the main trends in NDD biomedical research. Here we summarize data on peripheral biomarkers, biofluids (cerebrospinal fluid and blood plasma), and peripheral blood cells (platelets (PLTs) and red blood cells (RBCs)), reported so far for the three most common NDDs-Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). PLTs and RBCs, beyond their primary physiological functions, are increasingly recognized as valuable sources of biomarkers for NDDs. Special attention is given to the morphological and nanomechanical signatures of PLTs and RBCs as biophysical markers for the three pathologies. Modifications of the surface nanostructure and morphometric and nanomechanical signatures of PLTs and RBCs from patients with AD, PD, and ALS have been revealed by atomic force microscopy (AFM). AFM is currently experiencing rapid and widespread adoption in biomedicine and clinical medicine, in particular for early diagnostics of various medical conditions. AFM is a unique instrument without an analog, allowing the generation of three-dimensional cell images with extremely high spatial resolution at near-atomic scale, which are complemented by insights into the mechanical properties of cells and subcellular structures. Data demonstrate that AFM can distinguish between the three pathologies and the normal, healthy state. The specific PLT and RBC signatures can serve as biomarkers in combination with the currently used diagnostic tools. We highlight the strong correlation of the morphological and nanomechanical signatures between RBCs and PLTs in PD, ALS, and AD.

494. Neuro-Urology and Biobanking: An Integrated Approach for Advancing Research and Improving Patient Care.
Abstract: Understanding the molecular mechanisms underlying neuro-urological disorders is crucial for the development of targeted therapeutic interventions. Through the establishment of comprehensive biobanks, researchers can collect and store various biological specimens, including urine, blood, tissue, and DNA samples, to study these mechanisms. In the context of neuro-urology, biobanking facilitates the identification of genetic variations, epigenetic modifications, and gene expression patterns associated with neurogenic lower urinary tract dysfunction. These conditions often present as symptoms of neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's disease, spinal cord injury, and many others. Biobanking of tissue specimens from such patients is essential to understand why these diseases cause the respective symptoms and what can be done to alleviate them. The utilization of high-throughput technologies, such as next-generation sequencing and gene expression profiling, enables researchers to explore the molecular landscape of these conditions in an unprecedented manner. The development of specific and reliable biomarkers resulting from these efforts may help in early detection, accurate diagnosis, and effective monitoring of neuro-urological conditions, leading to improved patient care and management. Furthermore, these biomarkers could potentially facilitate the monitoring of novel therapies currently under investigation in neuro-urological clinical trials. This comprehensive review explores the synergistic integration of neuro-urology and biobanking, with particular emphasis on the translation of biobanking approaches in molecular research in neuro-urology. We discuss the advantages of biobanking in neuro-urological studies, the types of specimens collected and their applications in translational research. Furthermore, we highlight the importance of standardization and quality assurance when collecting samples and discuss challenges that may compromise sample quality and impose limitations on their subsequent utilization. Finally, we give recommendations for sampling in multicenter studies, examine sustainability issues associated with biobanking, and provide future directions for this dynamic field.

495. Identification of Candidate Biomarkers of Alzheimer's Disease via Multiplex Cerebrospinal Fluid and Serum Proteomics.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent form of dementia among elderly people worldwide. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is the optimal fluid source for AD biomarkers, while serum biomarkers are much more achievable. To search for novel diagnostic AD biomarkers, we performed a quantitative proteomic analysis of CSF and serum samples from AD and normal cognitive controls (NC). CSF and serum proteomes were analyzed via data-independent acquisition quantitative mass spectrometry. Our bioinformatic analysis was based on Gene Ontology (GO) functional annotation analysis and Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) enrichment. In comparison to the controls, 8 proteins were more abundant in AD CSF, and 60 were less abundant in AD CSF, whereas 55 proteins were more and 10 were less abundant in the serum samples. ATPase-associated activity for CSF and mitochondrial functions for CSF and serum were the most enriched GO terms of the DEPs. KEGG enrichment analysis showed that the most significant pathways for the differentially expressed proteins were the N-glycan biosynthesis pathways. The area under the curve (AUC) values for CSF sodium-/potassium-transporting ATPase subunit beta-1 (AT1B1), serglycin (SRGN), and thioredoxin-dependent peroxide reductase, mitochondrial (PRDX3) were 0.867 (p = 0.004), 0.833 (p = 0.008), and 0.783 (p = 0.025), respectively. A panel of the above three CSF proteins accurately differentiated AD (AUC = 0.933, p = 0.001) from NC. The AUC values for serum probable phospholipid-transporting ATPase IM (AT8B4) and SRGN were moderate. The AUC of the CSF SRGN + serum SRGN was 0.842 (p = 0.007). These novel AD biomarker candidates are mainly associated with inflammation, ATPase activity, oxidative stress, and mitochondrial dysfunction. Further studies are needed to investigate the molecular mechanisms by which these potential biomarkers are involved in AD.

496. Licochalcone A: A Potential Multitarget Drug for Alzheimer's Disease Treatment.
Abstract: Licochalcone A (Lico-A) is a flavonoid compound derived from the root of the Glycyrrhiza species, a plant commonly used in traditional Chinese medicine. While the Glycyrrhiza species has shown promise in treating various diseases such as cancer, obesity, and skin diseases due to its active compounds, the investigation of Licochalcone A's effects on the central nervous system and its potential application in Alzheimer's disease (AD) treatment have garnered significant interest. Studies have reported the neuroprotective effects of Lico-A, suggesting its potential as a multitarget compound. Lico-A acts as a PTP1B inhibitor, enhancing cognitive activity through the BDNF-TrkB pathway and exhibiting inhibitory effects on microglia activation, which enables mitigation of neuroinflammation. Moreover, Lico-A inhibits c-Jun N-terminal kinase 1, a key enzyme involved in tau phosphorylation, and modulates the brain insulin receptor, which plays a role in cognitive processes. Lico-A also acts as an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, leading to increased levels of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine (Ach) in the brain. This mechanism enhances cognitive capacity in individuals with AD. Finally, Lico-A has shown the ability to reduce amyloid plaques, a hallmark of AD, and exhibits antioxidant properties by activating the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2), a key regulator of antioxidant defense mechanisms. In the present review, we discuss the available findings analyzing the potential of Lico-A as a neuroprotective agent. Continued research on Lico-A holds promise for the development of novel treatments for cognitive disorders and neurodegenerative diseases, including AD. Further investigations into its multitarget action and elucidation of underlying mechanisms will contribute to our understanding of its therapeutic potential.

497. Fisetin-In Search of Better Bioavailability-From Macro to Nano Modifications: A Review.
Abstract: As secondary plant metabolites, polyphenols are abundant in fruits and vegetables. They are in high demand because of their many health benefits. However, their low bioavailability makes them complex compounds to use for therapeutic purposes. Due to the limited solubility of phytocompounds, dietary supplements made from them may only be partially effective. Such molecules include fisetin, found in strawberries, and have shown great promise in treating Alzheimer's disease and cancer. Unfortunately, because of their limited water solubility, low absorption, and poor bioavailability, the assistance of nanotechnology is required to allow them to fulfil their potential fully. Here, we provide evidence that nanodelivery methods and structure modifications can improve fisetin bioavailability, which is linked to improvements in therapeutic efficacy. An open question remains as to which nanocarrier should be chosen to meet the abovementioned requirements and be able to enhance fisetin's therapeutic potential to treat a particular disease.

498. Early Alzheimer's Disease Screening Approach Using Plasma Biomarkers.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent dementia, but it shows similar initial symptoms to other neurocognitive diseases (Lewy body disease (LBD) and frontotemporal dementia (FTD)). Thus, the identification of reliable AD plasma biomarkers is required. The aim of this work is to evaluate the use of a few plasma biomarkers to develop an early and specific AD screening method. Plasma p-Tau181, neurofilament light (NfL), and glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) were determined by Single Molecule Assay (SIMOA® Quanterix, Billerica, MA, USA) in patients with mild cognitive impairment due to AD (MCI-AD, n = 50), AD dementia (n = 10), FTD (n = 20), LBD (n = 5), and subjective cognitive impairment (SCI (n = 21)). Plasma p-Tau181 and GFAP showed the highest levels in AD dementia, and significant correlations with clinical AD characteristics; meanwhile, NfL showed the highest levels in FTD, but no significant correlations with AD. The partial least squares (PLS) diagnosis model developed between the AD and SCI groups showed good accuracy with a receiver operating characteristic (ROC) area under curve (AUC) of 0.935 (CI 95% 0.87-0.98), sensitivity of 86%, and specificity of 88%. In a first screen, NfL plasma levels could identify FTD patients among subjects with cognitive impairment. Then, the developed PLS model including p-Tau181 and GFAP levels could identify AD patients, constituting a simple, early, and specific diagnosis approach.

499. Novel Therapeutic Opportunities for Neurodegenerative Diseases with Mesenchymal Stem Cells: The Focus on Modulating the Blood-Brain Barrier.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative disorders encompass a broad spectrum of profoundly disabling situations that impact millions of individuals globally. While their underlying causes and pathophysiology display considerable diversity and remain incompletely understood, a mounting body of evidence indicates that the disruption of blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability, resulting in brain damage and neuroinflammation, is a common feature among them. Consequently, targeting the BBB has emerged as an innovative therapeutic strategy for addressing neurological disorders. Within this review, we not only explore the neuroprotective, neurotrophic, and immunomodulatory benefits of mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) in combating neurodegeneration but also delve into their recent role in modulating the BBB. We will investigate the cellular and molecular mechanisms through which MSC treatment impacts primary age-related neurological conditions like Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and stroke, as well as immune-mediated diseases such as multiple sclerosis. Our focus will center on how MSCs participate in the modulation of cell transporters, matrix remodeling, stabilization of cell-junction components, and restoration of BBB network integrity in these pathological contexts.

500. The Expression of Major Facilitator Superfamily Domain-Containing Protein2a (Mfsd2a) and Aquaporin 4 Is Altered in the Retinas of a 5xFAD Mouse Model of Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is characterized by amyloid β (Aβ) accumulation in the blood vessels and is associated with cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The increased accumulation of Aβ is also present in the retinal blood vessels and a significant correlation between retinal and brain amyloid deposition was demonstrated in living patients and animal AD models. The Aβ accumulation in the retinal blood vessels can be the result of impaired transcytosis and/or the dysfunctional ocular glymphatic system in AD and during aging. We analyzed the changes in the mRNA and protein expression of major facilitator superfamily domain-containing protein2a (Mfsd2a), the major regulator of transcytosis, and of Aquaporin4 (Aqp4), the key player implicated in the functioning of the glymphatic system, in the retinas of 4- and 12-month-old WT and 5xFAD female mice. A strong decrease in the Mfsd2a mRNA and protein expression was observed in the 4 M and 12 M 5xFAD and 12 M WT retinas. The increase in the expression of srebp1-c could be at least partially responsible for the Mfsd2a decrease in the 4 M 5xFAD retinas. The decrease in the pericyte (CD13+) coverage of retinal blood vessels in the 4 M and 12 M 5xFAD retinas and in the 12 M WT retinas suggests that pericyte loss could be associated with the Mfsd2a downregulation in these experimental groups. The observed increase in Aqp4 expression in 4 M and 12 M 5xFAD and 12 M WT retinas accompanied by the decreased perivascular Aqp4 expression is indicative of the impaired glymphatic system. The findings in this study reveal the impaired Mfsd2a and Aqp4 expression and Aqp4 perivascular mislocalization in retinal blood vessels during physiological (WT) and pathological (5xFAD) aging, indicating their importance as putative targets for the development of new treatments that can improve the regulation of transcytosis or the function of the glymphatic system.

501. Anti-Amnesia-like Effect of Pinus densiflora Extract by Improving Apoptosis and Neuroinflammation on Trimethyltin-Induced ICR Mice.
Abstract: This study was conducted to investigate the anti-amnestic property of Korean red pine bark extract (KRPBE) on TMT-induced cognitive decline in ICR mice. As a result of looking at behavioral function, the consumption of KRPBE improved the spatial work ability, short-term learning, and memory ability by Y-maze, passive avoidance, and Morris water maze tests. KRPBE suppressed antioxidant system damage by assessing the SOD activity, reduced GSH content, and MDA levels in brain tissue. In addition, it had a protective effect on cholinergic and synaptic systems by regulating ACh levels, AChE activity, and protein expression levels of ChAT, AChE, SYP, and PSD-95. Also, the KRPBE ameliorated TMT-induced mitochondrial damage by regulating the ROS content, MMP, and ATP levels. Treatment with KRPBE suppressed Aβ accumulation and phosphorylation of tau and reduced the expression level of BAX/BCl-2 ratio and caspase 3, improving oxidative stress-induced apoptosis. Moreover, treatment with KRPBE improved cognitive dysfunction by regulating the neuro-inflammatory protein expression levels of p-JNK, p-Akt, p-IκB-α, COX-2, and IL-1β. Based on these results, the extract of Korean red pine bark, which is discarded as a byproduct of forestry, might be used as an eco-friendly material for functional foods or pharmaceuticals by having an anti-amnesia effect on cognitive impairment.

502. Objective Physical Function in the Alzheimer's Disease Continuum: Association with Cerebrospinal Fluid Biomarkers in the ALBION Study.
Abstract: Cognitive and physical decline, both indicators of aging, seem to be associated with each other. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether physical function parameters (walking time and handgrip strength) are related to cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers (amyloid-beta Aβ42, Tau, PhTau) in individuals in the Alzheimer's disease (AD) continuum. The sample was drawn from the Aiginition Longitudinal Biomarker Investigation of Neurodegeneration study, comprising 163 individuals aged 40-75 years: 112 cognitively normal (CN) and 51 with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Physical function parameters were measured at baseline, a lumbar puncture was performed the same day and CSF biomarkers were analyzed using automated methods. The association between walking time, handgrip strength and CSF biomarkers was evaluated by linear correlation, followed by multivariate linear regression models adjusted for age, sex, education and APOEe4 genotype. Walking time was inversely related to CSF Aβ42 (lower CSF values correspond to increased brain deposition) in all participants (p < 0.05). Subgroup analysis showed that this association was stronger in individuals with MCI and participants older than 60 years old, a result which remained statistically significant after adjustment for the aforementioned confounding factors. These findings may open new perspectives regarding the role of mobility in the AD continuum.

503. Alteration of Neural Network and Hippocampal Slice Activation through Exosomes Derived from 5XFAD Nasal Lavage Fluid.
Abstract: Exosomes, key mediators of intercellular transmission of pathogenic proteins, such as amyloid-beta and tau, significantly influence the progression and exacerbation of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. Present in a variety of biological fluids, including cerebrospinal fluid, blood, saliva, and nasal lavage fluid (NLF), exosomes underscore their potential as integral mediators of AD pathology. By serving as vehicles for disease-specific molecules, exosomes could unveil valuable insights into disease identification and progression. This study emphasizes the imperative to investigate the impacts of exosomes on neural networks to enhance our comprehension of intracerebral neuronal communication and its implications for neurological disorders like AD. After harvesting exosomes derived from NLF of 5XFAD mice, we utilized a high-density multielectrode array (HD-MEA) system, the novel technology enabling concurrent recordings from thousands of neurons in primary cortical neuron cultures and organotypic hippocampal slices. The ensuing results revealed a surge in neuronal firing rates and disoriented neural connectivity, reflecting the effects provoked by pathological amyloid-beta oligomer treatment. The local field potentials in the exosome-treated hippocampal brain slices also exhibited aberrant rhythmicity, along with an elevated level of current source density. While this research is an initial exploration, it highlights the potential of exosomes in modulating neural networks under AD conditions and endorses the HD-MEA as an efficacious tool for exosome studies.

504. Advancements in the Application of Nanomedicine in Alzheimer's Disease: A Therapeutic Perspective.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that affects most people worldwide. AD is a complex central nervous system disorder. Several drugs have been designed to cure AD, but with low success rates. Because the blood-brain and blood-cerebrospinal fluid barriers are two barriers that protect the central nervous system, their presence has severely restricted the efficacy of many treatments that have been studied for AD diagnosis and/or therapy. The use of nanoparticles for the diagnosis and treatment of AD is the focus of an established and rapidly developing field of nanomedicine. Recent developments in nanomedicine have made it possible to effectively transport drugs to the brain. However, numerous obstacles remain to the successful use of nanomedicines in clinical settings for AD treatment. Furthermore, given the rapid advancement in nanomedicine therapeutics, better outcomes for patients with AD can be anticipated. This article provides an overview of recent developments in nanomedicine using different types of nanoparticles for the management and treatment of AD.

505. Positive Allosteric Modulators of SERCA Pump Restore Dendritic Spines and Rescue Long-Term Potentiation Defects in Alzheimer's Disease Mouse Model.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder that affects memory formation and storage processes. Dysregulated neuronal calcium (Ca2+) has been identified as one of the key pathogenic events in AD, and it has been suggested that pharmacological agents that stabilize Ca2+ neuronal signaling can act as disease-modifying agents in AD. In previous studies, we demonstrated that positive allosteric regulators (PAMs) of the sarco/endoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ ATPase (SERCA) pump might act as such Ca2+-stabilizing agents and exhibit neuroprotective properties. In the present study, we evaluated effects of a set of novel SERCA PAM agents on the rate of Ca2+ extraction from the cytoplasm of the HEK293T cell line, on morphometric parameters of dendritic spines of primary hippocampal neurons in normal conditions and in conditions of amyloid toxicity, and on long-term potentiation in slices derived from 5xFAD transgenic mice modeling AD. Several SERCA PAM compounds demonstrated neuroprotective properties, and the compound NDC-9009 showed the best results. The findings in this study support the hypothesis that the SERCA pump is a potential therapeutic target for AD treatment and that NDC-9009 is a promising lead molecule to be used in the development of disease-modifying agents for AD.

506. Simufilam Reverses Aberrant Receptor Interactions of Filamin A in Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Simufilam is a novel oral drug candidate in Phase 3 clinical trials for Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia. This small molecule binds an altered form of filamin A (FLNA) that occurs in AD. This drug action disrupts FLNA's aberrant linkage to the α7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (α7nAChR), thereby blocking soluble amyloid beta1-42 (Aβ42)'s signaling via α7nAChR that hyperphosphorylates tau. Here, we aimed to clarify simufilam's mechanism. We now show that simufilam reduced Aβ42 binding to α7nAChR with a 10-picomolar IC50 using time-resolved fluorescence resonance energy transfer (TR-FRET), a robust technology to detect highly sensitive molecular interactions. We also show that FLNA links to multiple inflammatory receptors in addition to Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) in postmortem human AD brains and in AD transgenic mice: TLR2, C-X-C chemokine receptor type 4 (CXCR4), C-C chemokine receptor type 5 (CCR5), and T-cell co-receptor cluster of differentiation 4 (CD4). These aberrant FLNA linkages, which can be induced in a healthy control brain by Aβ42 incubation, were disrupted by simufilam. Simufilam reduced inflammatory cytokine release from Aβ42-stimulated human astrocytes. In the AD transgenic mice, CCR5-G protein coupling was elevated, indicating persistent activation. Oral simufilam reduced both the FLNA-CCR5 linkage and the CCR5-G protein coupling in these mice, while restoring CCR5's responsivity to C-C chemokine ligand 3 (CCL3). By disrupting aberrant FLNA-receptor interactions critical to AD pathogenic pathways, simufilam may promote brain health.

507. Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease: Beyond Symptomatic Therapies.
Abstract: In an ever-increasing aged world, Alzheimer's disease (AD) represents the first cause of dementia and one of the first chronic diseases in elderly people. With 55 million people affected, the WHO considers AD to be a disease with public priority. Unfortunately, there are no final cures for this pathology. Treatment strategies are aimed to mitigate symptoms, i.e., acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (AChEI) and the N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist Memantine. At present, the best approaches for managing the disease seem to combine pharmacological and non-pharmacological therapies to stimulate cognitive reserve. Over the last twenty years, a number of drugs have been discovered acting on the well-established biological hallmarks of AD, deposition of β-amyloid aggregates and accumulation of hyperphosphorylated tau protein in cells. Although previous efforts disappointed expectations, a new era in treating AD has been working its way recently. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) gave conditional approval of the first disease-modifying therapy (DMT) for the treatment of AD, aducanumab, a monoclonal antibody (mAb) designed against Aβ plaques and oligomers in 2021, and in January 2023, the FDA granted accelerated approval for a second monoclonal antibody, Lecanemab. This review describes ongoing clinical trials with DMTs and non-pharmacological therapies. We will also present a future scenario based on new biomarkers that can detect AD in preclinical or prodromal stages, identify people at risk of developing AD, and allow an early and curative treatment.

508. Survival Bias, Non-Lineal Behavioral and Cortico-Limbic Neuropathological Signatures in 3xTg-AD Mice for Alzheimer's Disease from Premorbid to Advanced Stages and Compared to Normal Aging.
Abstract: Pre-clinical research in aging is hampered by the scarcity of studies modeling its heterogeneity and complexity forged by pathophysiological conditions throughout the life cycle and under the sex perspective. In the case of Alzheimer's disease, the leading cause of dementia in older adults, we recently described in female wildtype and APP23 mice a survival bias and non-linear chronology of behavioral signatures from middle age to long life. Here, we present a comprehensive and multidimensional (physical, cognitive, and neuropsychiatric-like symptoms) screening and underlying neuropathological signatures in male and female 3xTg-AD mice at 2, 4, 6, 12, and 16 months of age and compared to their non-transgenic counterparts with gold-standard C57BL/6J background. Most variables studied detected age-related differences, whereas the genotype factor was specific to horizontal and vertical activities, thigmotaxis, coping with stress strategies, working memory, and frailty index. A sex effect was predominantly observed in classical emotional variables and physical status. Sixteen-month-old mice exhibited non-linear age- and genotype-dependent behavioral signatures, with higher heterogeneity in females, and worsened in naturalistically isolated males, suggesting distinct compensatory mechanisms and survival bias. The underlying temporal and spatial progression of Aβ and tau pathologies pointed to a relevant cortico-limbic substrate roadmap: premorbid intracellular Aβ immunoreactivity and pSer202/pThr205 tau phosphorylation in the amygdala and ventral hippocampus, and the entorhinal cortex and ventral hippocampus as the areas most affected by Aβ plaques. Therefore, depicting phenotypic signatures and neuropathological correlates can be critical to unveiling preventive/therapeutic research and intervention windows and studying adaptative behaviors and maladaptive responses relevant to psychopathology.

509. The Dual Role of Autophagy in Postischemic Brain Neurodegeneration of Alzheimer's Disease Proteinopathy.
Abstract: Autophagy is a self-defense and self-degrading intracellular system involved in the recycling and elimination of the payload of cytoplasmic redundant components, aggregated or misfolded proteins and intracellular pathogens to maintain cell homeostasis and physiological function. Autophagy is activated in response to metabolic stress or starvation to maintain homeostasis in cells by updating organelles and dysfunctional proteins. In neurodegenerative diseases, such as cerebral ischemia, autophagy is disturbed, e.g., as a result of the pathological accumulation of proteins associated with Alzheimer's disease and their structural changes. Postischemic brain neurodegeneration, such as Alzheimer's disease, is characterized by the accumulation of amyloid and tau protein. After cerebral ischemia, autophagy was found to be activated in neuronal, glial and vascular cells. Some studies have shown the protective properties of autophagy in postischemic brain, while other studies have shown completely opposite properties. Thus, autophagy is now presented as a double-edged sword with possible therapeutic potential in brain ischemia. The exact role and regulatory pathways of autophagy that are involved in cerebral ischemia have not been conclusively elucidated. This review aims to provide a comprehensive look at the advances in the study of autophagy behavior in neuronal, glial and vascular cells for ischemic brain injury. In addition, the importance of autophagy in neurodegeneration after cerebral ischemia has been highlighted. The review also presents the possibility of modulating the autophagy machinery through various compounds on the development of neurodegeneration after cerebral ischemia.

510. Probiotics Modulate Host Immune Response and Interact with the Gut Microbiota: Shaping Their Composition and Mediating Antibiotic Resistance.
Abstract: The consortium of microbes inhabiting the human body, together with their encoded genes and secreted metabolites, is referred to as the "human microbiome." Several studies have established a link between the composition of the microbiome and its impact on human health. This impact spans local gastrointestinal inflammation to systemic autoimmune disorders and neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's and Autism. Some of these links have been validated by rigorous experiments that identify specific strains as mediators or drivers of a particular condition. Consequently, the development of probiotics to compensate for a missing beneficial microbe(s) has advanced and become popular, especially in the treatment of irritable bowel diseases and to restore disrupted gut flora after antibiotic administration. The widespread use of probiotics is often advocated as a natural ecological therapy. However, this perception is not always accurate, as there is a potential for unexpected interactions when administering live microbial cultures. Here, we designed this research to explore the intricate interactions among probiotics, the host, and microbes through a series of experiments. Our objectives included assessing their immunomodulatory effects, response to oral medications, impact on microbial population dynamics, and mediation of antibiotic resistance. To achieve these goals, we employed diverse experimental protocols, including cell-based enzyme -linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), antibiotic susceptibility testing, antimicrobial activity assays, computational prediction of probiotic genes responsible for antibiotic resistance, polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based validation of predicted genes, and survival assays of probiotics in the presence of selected oral medications. Our findings highlight that more than half of the tested probiotics trigger an inflammatory response in the Caco-2 cell line, are influenced by oral medications, exhibit antibacterial activity, and possess genes encoding antimicrobial resistance. These results underscore the necessity for a reevaluation of probiotic usage and emphasize the importance of establishing regulations to govern probiotic testing, approval, and administration.

511. Plasma Neurofilament Light Chains as Blood-Based Biomarkers for Early Diagnosis of Canine Cognitive Dysfunction Syndrome.
Abstract: The number of elderly dogs is increasing significantly worldwide, and many elderly dogs develop canine cognitive dysfunction syndrome (CCDS). CCDS is the canine analog of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in humans. It is very important to develop techniques for detecting CDDS in dogs. Thus, we used the detection of neurofilament light chains (NfL) in plasma as a blood-based biomarker for the early diagnosis of canine Alzheimer's disease using immunomagnetic reduction (IMR) technology by immobilizing NfL antibodies on magnetic nanoparticles. According to the 50-point CCDS rating scale, we divided 36 dogs into 15 with CCDS and 21 without the disease. The results of our IMR assay showed that the plasma NfL levels of dogs with CCDS were significantly increased compared to normal dogs (p < 0.01). By plasma biochemical analysis, we further confirmed that the liver and renal dysfunction biomarkers of dogs with CCDS were significantly elevated compared to normal dogs (p < 0.01-0.05). On the basis of our preliminary study, we propose that IMR technology could be an ideal biosensor for detecting plasma NfL for the early diagnosis of CCDS.

512. A Multiplexed Urinary Biomarker Panel Has Potential for Alzheimer's Disease Diagnosis Using Targeted Proteomics and Machine Learning.
Abstract: As disease-modifying therapies are now available for Alzheimer's disease (AD), accessible, accurate and affordable biomarkers to support diagnosis are urgently needed. We sought to develop a mass spectrometry-based urine test as a high-throughput screening tool for diagnosing AD. We collected urine from a discovery cohort (n = 11) of well-characterised individuals with AD (n = 6) and their asymptomatic, CSF biomarker-negative study partners (n = 5) and used untargeted proteomics for biomarker discovery. Protein biomarkers identified were taken forward to develop a high-throughput, multiplexed and targeted proteomic assay which was tested on an independent cohort (n = 21). The panel of proteins identified are known to be involved in AD pathogenesis. In comparing AD and controls, a panel of proteins including MIEN1, TNFB, VCAM1, REG1B and ABCA7 had a classification accuracy of 86%. These proteins have been previously implicated in AD pathogenesis. This suggests that urine-targeted mass spectrometry has potential utility as a diagnostic screening tool in AD.

513. Exploring the Anti-Hypoxaemia Effect of Hydromethylthionine: A Prospective Study of Phase 3 Clinical Trial Participants.
Abstract: Methylthioninium chloride (MTC) is a standard treatment for methaemoglobinaemia. A preparation of reduced MTC has been reported to increase blood oxygen saturation (SpO2) and lower respiratory rates in patients with severe COVID-19. We have developed a stable form of reduced methylthionine (hydromethylthionine-mesylate, HMTM) having a benign safety profile in two Phase 3 trials in Alzheimer's disease. The aim of this prospective study was to determine the effects of oral HMTM on SpO2 and methaemoglobin (metHb) levels in a cohort of patients with mild hypoxaemia not due to COVID-19. Eighteen participants randomised to a single dose of 4, 75, 100 or 125 mg doses of HMTM had SpO2 levels below 94% at baseline. Patients were routinely monitored by pulse oximetry after 4 h, and after 2 and 6 weeks of twice daily dosing. Significant ~3% increases in SpO2 occurred within 4 h and were sustained over 2 and 6 weeks with no dose differences. There were small dose-dependent increases (0.060-0.162%) in metHb levels over 2 to 6 weeks. Minimum-energy computational chemistry revealed that HMT can bind within 2.10 Å of heme iron by donating a pair of electrons from the central nitrogen of HMT to d orbitals of heme iron, but with lower affinity than oxygen. In conclusion, HMTM can increase SpO2 without reducing metHb by acting as a strong displaceable field ligand for heme iron. We hypothesise that this facilitates a transition from the low oxygen affinity T-state of heme to the higher affinity R-state. HMTM has potential as an adjunctive treatment for hypoxaemia.

514. Phenomic Microglia Diversity as a Druggable Target in the Hippocampus in Neurodegenerative Diseases.
Abstract: Phenomics, the complexity of microglia phenotypes and their related functions compels the continuous study of microglia in disease animal models to find druggable targets for neurodegenerative disorders. Activation of microglia was long considered detrimental for neuron survival, but more recently it has become apparent that the real scenario of microglia morphofunctional diversity is far more complex. In this review, we discuss the recent literature on the alterations in microglia phenomics in the hippocampus of animal models of normal brain aging, acute neuroinflammation, ischemia, and neurodegenerative disorders, such as AD. Microglia undergo phenomic changes consisting of transcriptional, functional, and morphological changes that transform them into cells with different properties and functions. The classical subdivision of microglia into M1 and M2, two different, all-or-nothing states is too simplistic, and does not correspond to the variety of phenotypes recently discovered in the brain. We will discuss the phenomic modifications of microglia focusing not only on the differences in microglia reactivity in the diverse models of neurodegenerative disorders, but also among different areas of the brain. For instance, in contiguous and highly interconnected regions of the rat hippocampus, microglia show a differential, finely regulated, and region-specific reactivity, demonstrating that microglia responses are not uniform, but vary significantly from area to area in response to insults. It is of great interest to verify whether the differences in microglia reactivity may explain the differential susceptibility of different brain areas to insults, and particularly the higher sensitivity of CA1 pyramidal neurons to inflammatory stimuli. Understanding the spatiotemporal heterogeneity of microglia phenomics in health and disease is of paramount importance to find new druggable targets for the development of novel microglia-targeted therapies in different CNS disorders. This will allow interventions in three different ways: (i) by suppressing the pro-inflammatory properties of microglia to limit the deleterious effect of their activation; (ii) by modulating microglia phenotypic change to favor anti-inflammatory properties; (iii) by influencing microglia priming early in the disease process.

515. Designing an Informative App for Neurorehabilitation: A Feasibility and Satisfaction Study by Physiotherapists.
Abstract: New technologies have gained popularity, especially the use of mobile phone applications, in neurorehabilitation. The aim of this paper was (1) to develop a free mobile application (NeurorehAPP) that provides information about and helps to select the appropriate mobile application related to a list of neurological disorders (cognitive impairment, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, traumatic brain injury, stroke, cerebral palsy, muscular dystrophy, spina bifida, and facial paralysis), based on different objectives such as healthy habits, information, assessment, and treatment; and (2) to assess the feasibility, acceptability, and degree of satisfaction by physiotherapists after using NeurorehAPP for a minimum of three months.

516. A Pilot Fuzzy System with Virtual Reality for Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) Assessment.
Abstract: Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is when brain function declines. MCI is the gray area transitioning from normal aging to the AD stage. Currently, the majority of early MCI diagnoses are processed through comprehensive neuropsychological tests. These tests may take the form of interviews, paper-and-pencil tests, or computer-based tests. There may be resistance from the subject if he/she has to undergo many screening tests simultaneously for multiple evaluation information, resulting in execution difficulty. The objectives of this study are to use 3D virtual reality to create an entertaining test scenario integrating the Mini-Cog, SPMSQ, MMSE, SLUMS, CDR, and CASI for middle-aged to older adults, furthermore, to employ fuzzy logic control (FLC) technology to develop a "MCI assessment system" for obtaining some pilot information for MCI assessment. There were 24 middle-aged to older adults aged from 50 to 65 years who participated in the evaluation experiment. The results showed that the MCI assessment system developed in this study is highly correlated with the traditional screening tests, including the Mini-Cog, SPMSQ, MMSE, SLUMS, and CASI. The assessment system can provide an integrated reference score for clinic workers in making judgments. In addition, the distribution of the System Usability Scale (SUS) evaluation scores for the MCI assessment system revealed that 87.5% were grade C (good to use) or above and 29.2% were grade B (extremely good to use) or above. The assessment system received positive feedback from the subjects.

517. NF-κB Pathway and Its Inhibitors: A Promising Frontier in the Management of Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: The nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) pathway has emerged as a pivotal player in the pathogenesis of various diseases, including neurodegenerative illnesses like Alzheimer's disease (AD). The involvement of the NF-κB pathway in immune system responses, inflammation, oxidative stress, and neuronal survival highlights its significance in AD progression. We discuss the advantages of NF-κB pathway inhibition, including the potential to mitigate neuroinflammation, modulate amyloid beta (Aβ) production, and promote neuronal survival. However, we also acknowledge the limitations and challenges associated with this approach. Balancing the fine line between dampening inflammation and preserving physiological immune responses is critical to avoid unintended consequences. This review combines current knowledge on the NF-κB pathway's intricate involvement in AD pathogenesis, emphasizing its potential as a therapeutic target. By evaluating both advantages and limitations, we provide a holistic view of the feasibility and challenges of NF-κB pathway modulation in AD treatment. As the quest for effective AD therapies continues, an in-depth understanding of the NF-κB pathway's multifaceted roles will guide the development of targeted interventions with the potential to improve AD management.

518. Neuroprotective and Cardiometabolic Role of Vitamin E: Alleviating Neuroinflammation and Metabolic Disturbance Induced by AlCl3 in Rat Models.
Abstract: Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) and neurodegenerative disorders, such as diabetes mellitus and Alzheimer's disease, share a common pathophysiological link involving insulin resistance (IR), inflammation, and hypertension. Aluminium chloride (AlCl3), a known neurotoxicant, has been associated with neurodegeneration, cognitive impairment, and various organ dysfunctions due to the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and oxidative stress. In this study, we aimed to investigate the potential protective effects of metformin and vitamin E against AlCl3-induced neuroinflammation and cardiometabolic disturbances in rat models. Rats were divided into five groups: a normal control group, an AlCl3-treated diseased group without any treatment, and three groups exposed to AlCl3 and subsequently administered with metformin (100 mg/kg/day) alone, vitamin E (150 mg/kg/day) orally alone, or a combination of metformin (100 mg/kg/day) and vitamin E (150 mg/kg/day) for 45 days. We analyzed serum biomarkers and histopathological changes in brain, heart, and pancreatic tissues using H&E and Masson's trichrome staining and immunohistochemistry (IHC). Electrocardiogram (ECG) patterns were observed for all groups. The AlCl3-treated group showed elevated levels of inflammatory biomarkers, MDA, and disturbances in glycemic and lipid profiles, along with reduced insulin levels. However, treatment with the combination of metformin and vitamin E resulted in significantly reduced glucose, cholesterol, LDL, and TG levels, accompanied by increased insulin and HDL levels compared to the individual treatment groups. Histopathological analyses revealed that combination therapy preserved neuronal structures, muscle cell nuclei, and normal morphology in the brain, heart, and pancreatic tissues. IHC demonstrated reduced amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in the combination-treated group compared to the AlCl3-treated group. Moreover, the combination group showed a normal ECG pattern, contrasting the altered pattern observed in the AlCl3-treated group. Overall, our findings suggest that metformin and vitamin E, in combination, possess neuroprotective and cardiometabolic effects, alleviating AlCl3-induced neuroinflammation and metabolic disturbances.

519. Concordant and Discordant Cerebrospinal Fluid and Plasma Cytokine and Chemokine Responses in Mild Cognitive Impairment and Early-Stage Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Neuroinflammation may be a pathogenic mediator and biomarker of neurodegeneration at the boundary between mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and early-stage Alzheimer's disease (AD). Whether neuroinflammatory processes are endogenous to the central nervous system (CNS) or originate from systemic (peripheral blood) sources could impact strategies for therapeutic intervention. To address this issue, we measured cytokine and chemokine immunoreactivities in simultaneously obtained lumbar puncture cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and serum samples from 39 patients including 18 with MCI or early AD and 21 normal controls using a 27-plex XMAP bead-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The MCI/AD combined group had significant (p < 0.05 or better) or statistically trend-wise (0.05 ≤ p ≤ 0.10) concordant increases in CSF and serum IL-4, IL-5, IL-9, IL-13, and TNF-α and reductions in GM-CSF, b-FGF, IL-6, IP-10, and MCP-1; CSF-only increases in IFN-y and IL-7 and reductions in VEGF and IL-12p70; serum-only increases in IL-1β, MIP-1α, and eotaxin and reductions in G-CSF, IL-2, IL-8 and IL-15; and discordant CSF-serum responses with reduced CSF and increased serum PDGF-bb, IL-17a, and RANTES. The results demonstrate simultaneously parallel mixed but modestly greater pro-inflammatory compared to anti-inflammatory or neuroprotective responses in CSF and serum. In addition, the findings show evidence that several cytokines and chemokines are selectively altered in MCI/AD CSF, likely corresponding to distinct neuroinflammatory responses unrelated to systemic pathologies. The aggregate results suggest that early management of MCI/AD neuroinflammation should include both anti-inflammatory and pro-neuroprotective strategies to help prevent disease progression.

520. Current Advances in Mitochondrial Targeted Interventions in Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disorder and affects the lives not only of those who are diagnosed but also of their caregivers. Despite the enormous social, economic and political burden, AD remains a disease without an effective treatment and with several failed attempts to modify the disease course. The fact that AD clinical diagnosis is most often performed at a stage at which the underlying pathological events are in an advanced and conceivably irremediable state strongly hampers treatment attempts. This raises the awareness of the need to identify and characterize the early brain changes in AD, in order to identify possible novel therapeutic targets to circumvent AD's cascade of events. One of the most auspicious targets is mitochondria, powerful organelles found in nearly all cells of the body. A vast body of literature has shown that mitochondria from AD patients and model organisms of the disease differ from their non-AD counterparts. In view of this evidence, preserving and/or restoring mitochondria's health and function can represent the primary means to achieve advances to tackle AD. In this review, we will briefly assess and summarize the previous and latest evidence of mitochondria dysfunction in AD. A particular focus will be given to the recent updates and advances in the strategy options aimed to target faulty mitochondria in AD.

521. Alzheimer's Disease and Different Types of Cancer Likelihood: Unveiling Disparities and Potential Protective Effects in a Korean Cohort Study.
Abstract: The link between Alzheimer's disease and cancer risk is a concern in public health. However, research has yielded limited and sometimes contrasting results, suggesting the need for more validation. We analyzed a large cohort to examine the long-term association between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and the risk of developing cancer. In total, 24,664 AD patients and 98,656 control participants were selected from the National Health Insurance Cohort database of Korea, spanning from 2002 to 2019. Propensity score matching and overlap-weighted adjustment techniques were used to balance the standardized differences between the AD and control groups. The Cox proportional hazards model was applied to calculate hazard ratios (HRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for various cancers, considering relevant covariates. Results indicated that patients with AD had a significantly lower likelihood of overall malignancy (HR 0.63; 95% CI, 0.59-0.68) and each of the 10 site-specific cancers compared to the control group. Among these, pancreatic cancer (HR, 0.50) exhibited the strongest inverse association, followed by hepatic (HR, 0.60), gastric (HR, 0.63), kidney (HR, 0.63), lung (HR, 0.64), thyroid (HR, 0.65), colorectal (HR, 0.67), gallbladder and biliary duct (HR, 0.73), hematologic malignancy (HR, 0.73), and bladder cancers (HR, 0.76). This protective effect against certain organ-specific cancers persisted over the 16-year follow-up period, except for in kidney cancer and hematologic malignancies. The protective effect against specific cancer types (gastric, colorectal, lung, hepatic, and pancreatic) was more prominent in individuals aged 60 years and older, regardless of their sex. However, there were some variations in the specific types of cancer observed between males and females. In summary, Korean patients with AD had a lower risk of cancer, especially in individuals 60 years and older, during the 16-year follow-up period.

522. Deep Learning of Speech Data for Early Detection of Alzheimer's Disease in the Elderly.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia, which makes the lives of patients and their families difficult for various reasons. Therefore, early detection of AD is crucial to alleviating the symptoms through medication and treatment.

523. Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (rTMS) on the Precuneus in Alzheimer's Disease: A Literature Review.
Abstract: The current literature review aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of rTMS on the precuneus as a potential treatment for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although the number of studies specifically targeting the precuneus is limited, the results from this review suggest the potential benefits of this approach. Future studies should focus on exploring the long-term effects of rTMS on the precuneus in Alzheimer's disease patients, as well as determining the optimal stimulation parameters and protocols for this population. Additionally, investigating the effects of rTMS on the precuneus in combination with other brain regions implicated in AD may provide valuable insights into the development of effective treatment for this debilitating neurodegenerative disorder.

524. Investigation of Autonomic Dysfunction in Alzheimer's Disease-A Computational Model-Based Approach.
Abstract: (1) Background and Objective: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is commonly accompanied by autonomic dysfunction. Investigating autonomic dysfunction's occurrence patterns and severity may aid in making a distinction between different dementia subtypes, as cardiac autonomic dysfunction and AD severity are correlated. Heart rate variability (HRV) allows for a non-invasive assessment of the autonomic nervous system (ANS). AD is characterized by cholinergic depletion. A computational model of ANS based on the kinetics of acetylcholine and norepinephrine is used to simulate HRV for various autonomic states. The model has the flexibility to suitably modulate the concentration of acetylcholine corresponding to different autonomic states. (2) Methods: Twenty clinically plausible AD patients are compared to 20 age- and gender-matched healthy controls using HRV measures. Statistical analysis is performed to identify the HRV parameters that vary significantly in AD. By modulating the acetylcholine concentration in a controlled manner, different autonomic states of Alzheimer's disease are simulated using the ANS model. (3) Results: In patients with AD, there is a significant decrease in vagal activity, sympathovagal imbalance with a dominant sympathetic activity, and change in the time domain, frequency domain, and nonlinear HRV characteristics. Simulated HRV features corresponding to 10 progressive states of AD are presented. (4) Conclusions: There is a significant difference in the HRV features during AD. As cholinergic depletion and autonomic dysfunction have a common neurological basis, autonomic function assessment can help in diagnosis and assessment of AD. Quantitative models may help in better comprehending the pathophysiology of the disease and assessment of its progress.

525. Neuroprotective Potential of Flavonoids in Brain Disorders.
Abstract: Flavonoids are a large subgroup of polyphenols known to be sourced from over 6000 natural products, including fruits, vegetables, bark, and herbs. Due to their antioxidant properties, flavonoids have been implicated as a therapy source for many diseases and conditions, including inflammation, vasculitis, venous insufficiency, and hemorrhoids. Currently, some flavonoids are being researched for their antioxidant ability concerning neuroprotection. These flavonoids can penetrate the blood-brain barrier and, depending on the specific flavonoid, retain adequate bioavailability in certain brain regions. Further data suggest that flavonoids could have a strong anti-inflammatory effect in the brain, which not only could be a robust therapeutic source for known neuroinflammatory diseases such as Alzheimer's Disease or Parkinson's Disease but also could be a therapeutic source for ischemic or hemorrhagic conditions such as a stroke. While flavonoid toxicity exists, they are relatively safe and non-invasive drugs from natural origins. As such, exploring the known mechanisms and therapies may highlight and establish flavonoid therapy as a viable source of therapy for stroke patients. As stated, many flavonoids are already being isolated, purified, and implemented in both in vitro and in vivo experiments. As these flavonoids proceed to clinical trials, it will be important to understand how they function as a therapy, primarily as antioxidants, and by other secondary mechanisms. This review aims to elucidate those mechanisms and explore the neuroprotective role of flavonoids.

526. Cannabinoids in Medicine: A Multifaceted Exploration of Types, Therapeutic Applications, and Emerging Opportunities in Neurodegenerative Diseases and Cancer Therapy.
Abstract: In this review article, we embark on a thorough exploration of cannabinoids, compounds that have garnered considerable attention for their potential therapeutic applications. Initially, this article delves into the fundamental background of cannabinoids, emphasizing the role of endogenous cannabinoids in the human body and outlining their significance in studying neurodegenerative diseases and cancer. Building on this foundation, this article categorizes cannabinoids into three main types: phytocannabinoids (plant-derived cannabinoids), endocannabinoids (naturally occurring in the body), and synthetic cannabinoids (laboratory-produced cannabinoids). The intricate mechanisms through which these compounds interact with cannabinoid receptors and signaling pathways are elucidated. A comprehensive overview of cannabinoid pharmacology follows, highlighting their absorption, distribution, metabolism, and excretion, as well as their pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties. Special emphasis is placed on the role of cannabinoids in neurodegenerative diseases, showcasing their potential benefits in conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, and multiple sclerosis. The potential antitumor properties of cannabinoids are also investigated, exploring their potential therapeutic applications in cancer treatment and the mechanisms underlying their anticancer effects. Clinical aspects are thoroughly discussed, from the viability of cannabinoids as therapeutic agents to current clinical trials, safety considerations, and the adverse effects observed. This review culminates in a discussion of promising future research avenues and the broader implications for cannabinoid-based therapies, concluding with a reflection on the immense potential of cannabinoids in modern medicine.

527. Does SARS-CoV-2 Induce IgG4 Synthesis to Evade the Immune System?
Abstract: SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes the COVID-19 disease, has been shown to cause immune suppression in certain individuals. This can manifest as a reduced ability of the host's immune system to effectively control the infection. Studies have reported that patients with COVID-19 can exhibit a decline in white blood cell counts, including natural killer cells and T cells, which are integral components of the immune system's response to viral pathogens. These cells play critical roles in the immune response to viral infections, and their depletion can make it harder for the body to mount an effective defense against the virus. Additionally, the virus can also directly infect immune cells, further compromising their ability to function. Some individuals with severe COVID-19 pneumonia may develop a "cytokine storm", an overactive immune response that may result in tissue damage and organ malfunction. The underlying mechanisms of immune suppression in SARS-CoV-2 are not entirely understood at this time, and research is being conducted to gain a more comprehensive understanding. Research has shown that severe SARS-CoV-2 infection promotes the synthesis of IgG4 antibodies. In this study, we propose the hypothesis that IgG4 antibodies produced by B cells in response to infection by SARS-CoV-2 generate immunological tolerance, which prevents its elimination and leads to persistent and chronic infection. In summary, we believe that this constitutes another immune evasion mechanism that bears striking similarities to that developed by cancer cells to evade immune surveillance.

528. Low-Dose Chidamide Treatment Displays Sex-Specific Differences in the 3xTg-AD Mouse.
Abstract: Epigenetic compounds have become attractive small molecules for targeting the multifaceted aspects of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although AD disproportionately affects women, most of the current literature investigating epigenetic compounds for the treatment of AD do not report sex-specific results. This is remarkable because there is rising evidence that epigenetic compounds intrinsically affect males and females differently. This manuscript explores the sexual dimorphism observed after chronic, low-dose administration of a clinically relevant histone deacetylase inhibitor, chidamide (Tucidinostat), in the 3xTg-AD mouse model. We found that chidamide treatment significantly improves glucose tolerance and increases expression of glucose transporters in the brain of males. We also report a decrease in total tau in chidamide-treated mice. Differentially expressed genes in chidamide-treated mice were much greater in males than females. Genes involved in the neuroinflammatory pathway and amyloid processing pathway were mostly upregulated in chidamide-treated males while downregulated in chidamide-treated females. This work highlights the need for drug discovery projects to consider sex as a biological variable to facilitate translation.

529. Metformin Prevents NDEA-Induced Memory Impairments Associated with Attenuating Beta-Amyloid, Tumor Necrosis Factor-Alpha, and Interleukin-6 Levels in the Hippocampus of Rats.
Abstract: N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) is a potential carcinogen known to cause liver tumors and chronic inflammation, diabetes, cognitive problems, and signs like Alzheimer's disease (AD) in animals. This compound is classified as probably carcinogenic to humans. Usual sources of exposure include food, beer, tobacco, personal care products, water, and medications. AD is characterized by cognitive decline, amyloid-β (Aβ) deposit, tau hyperphosphorylation, and cell loss. This is accompanied by neuroinflammation, which involves release of microglial cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and interleukin 1β (IL-1β), by nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) upregulation; each are linked to AD progression. Weak PI3K/Akt insulin-signaling inhibits IRS-1 phosphorylation, activates GSK3β and promotes tau hyperphosphorylation. Metformin, an antihyperglycemic agent, has potent anti-inflammatory efficacy. It reduces proinflammatory cytokines such as IL-6, IL-1β, and TNF-α via NF-κB inhibition. Metformin also reduces reactive oxidative species (ROS) and modulates cognitive disorders reported due to brain insulin resistance links. Our study examined how NDEA affects spatial memory in Wistar rats. We found that all NDEA doses tested impaired memory. The 80 µg/kg dose of NDEA increased levels of Aβ1-42, TNF-α, and IL-6 in the hippocampus, which correlated with memory loss. Nonetheless, treatment with 100 mg/kg of metformin attenuated the levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines and Aβ1-42, and enhanced memory. It suggests that metformin may protect against NDEA-triggered memory issues and brain inflammation.

530. Selective Noradrenaline Depletion in the Neocortex and Hippocampus Induces Working Memory Deficits and Regional Occurrence of Pathological Proteins.
Abstract: Noradrenaline (NA) depletion occurs in Alzheimer's disease (AD); however, its relationship with the pathological expression of Tau and transactive response DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43), two major hallmarks of AD, remains elusive. Here, increasing doses of a selective noradrenergic immunotoxin were injected into developing rats to generate a model of mild or severe NA loss. At about 12 weeks post-lesion, dose-dependent working memory deficits were detected in these animals, associated with a marked increase in cortical and hippocampal levels of TDP-43 phosphorylated at Ser 409/410 and Tau phosphorylated at Thr 217. Notably, the total levels of both proteins were largely unaffected, suggesting a direct relationship between neocortical/hippocampal NA depletion and the phosphorylation of pathological Tau and TDP-43 proteins. As pTD43 is present in 23% of AD cases and pTau Thr217 has been detected in patients with mild cognitive impairment that eventually would develop into AD, improvement of noradrenergic function in AD might represent a viable therapeutic approach with disease-modifying potential.

531. Functional Implications of Protein Arginine Methyltransferases (PRMTs) in Neurodegenerative Diseases.
Abstract: During the aging of the global population, the prevalence of neurodegenerative diseases will be continuously growing. Although each disorder is characterized by disease-specific protein accumulations, several common pathophysiological mechanisms encompassing both genetic and environmental factors have been detected. Among them, protein arginine methyltransferases (PRMTs), which catalyze the methylation of arginine of various substrates, have been revealed to regulate several cellular mechanisms, including neuronal cell survival and excitability, axonal transport, synaptic maturation, and myelination. Emerging evidence highlights their critical involvement in the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), frontotemporal dementia-amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FTD-ALS) spectrum, Huntington's disease (HD), spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) and spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA). Underlying mechanisms include the regulation of gene transcription and RNA splicing, as well as their implication in various signaling pathways related to oxidative stress responses, apoptosis, neuroinflammation, vacuole degeneration, abnormal protein accumulation and neurotransmission. The targeting of PRMTs is a therapeutic approach initially developed against various forms of cancer but currently presents a novel potential strategy for neurodegenerative diseases. In this review, we discuss the accumulating evidence on the role of PRMTs in the pathophysiology of neurodegenerative diseases, enlightening their pathogenesis and stimulating future research.

532. Biochemical and Molecular Pathways in Neurodegenerative Diseases: An Integrated View.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) like Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are defined by a myriad of complex aetiologies. Understanding the common biochemical molecular pathologies among NDDs gives an opportunity to decipher the overlapping and numerous cross-talk mechanisms of neurodegeneration. Numerous interrelated pathways lead to the progression of neurodegeneration. We present evidence from the past pieces of literature for the most usual global convergent hallmarks like ageing, oxidative stress, excitotoxicity-induced calcium butterfly effect, defective proteostasis including chaperones, autophagy, mitophagy, and proteosome networks, and neuroinflammation. Herein, we applied a holistic approach to identify and represent the shared mechanism across NDDs. Further, we believe that this approach could be helpful in identifying key modulators across NDDs, with a particular focus on AD, PD, and ALS. Moreover, these concepts could be applied to the development and diagnosis of novel strategies for diverse NDDs.

533. T Lymphocytes and Their Potential Role in Dementia with Lewy Bodies.
Abstract: Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is the second most common neurodegenerative cause of dementia. People with DLB have an inferior prognosis compared to Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the diseases overlap in their neuropathology and clinical syndrome. It is imperative that we enhance our understanding of the aetiology and pathogenesis of DLB. The impact of peripheral inflammation on the brain in dementia has been increasingly explored in recent years, with T lymphocyte recruitment into brain parenchyma identified in AD and Parkinson's disease. There is now a growing range of literature emerging on the potential role of innate and adaptive immune cells in DLB, including T lymphocytes. In this review, we examine the profile of T lymphocytes in DLB, focusing on studies of post-mortem brain tissue, cerebrospinal fluid, and the blood compartment. We present an integrated viewpoint on the results of these studies by proposing how changes to the T lymphocyte profile in the brain and periphery may relate to each other. Improving our understanding of T lymphocytes in DLB has the potential to guide the development of disease-modifying treatments.

534. Evaluation of Dimercaptosuccinic Acid-Coated Iron Nanoparticles Immunotargeted to Amyloid Beta as MRI Contrast Agents for the Diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Nanoparticle-based magnetic contrast agents have opened the potential for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to be used for early non-invasive diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Accumulation of amyloid pathology in the brain has shown association with cognitive decline and tauopathy; hence, it is an effective biomarker for the early detection of AD. The aim of this study was to develop a biocompatible magnetic nanoparticle targeted to amyloid beta (Aβ) plaques to increase the sensitivity of T2-weighted MRI for imaging of amyloid pathology in AD. We presented novel iron core-iron oxide nanoparticles stabilized with a dimercaptosuccinic acid coating and functionalized with an anti-Aβ antibody. Nanoparticle biocompatibility and cellular internalization were evaluated in vitro in U-251 glioblastoma cells using cellular assays, proteomics, and transmission electron microscopy. Iron nanoparticles demonstrated no significant in vitro cytotoxicity, and electron microscopy results showed their movement through the endocytic cycle within the cell over a 24 h period. In addition, immunostaining and bio-layer interferometry confirmed the targeted nanoparticle's binding affinity to amyloid species. The iron nanoparticles demonstrated favourable MRI contrast enhancement; however, the addition of the antibody resulted in a reduction in the relaxivity of the particles. The present work shows promising preliminary results in the development of a targeted non-invasive method of early AD diagnosis using contrast-enhanced MRI.

535. Morphofunctional Investigation in a Transgenic Mouse Model of Alzheimer's Disease: Non-Reactive Astrocytes Are Involved in Aβ Load and Reactive Astrocytes in Plaque Build-Up.
Abstract: The term neuroinflammation defines the reactions of astrocytes and microglia to alterations in homeostasis in the diseased central nervous system (CNS), the exacerbation of which contributes to the neurodegenerative effects of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Local environmental conditions, such as the presence of proinflammatory molecules, mechanical properties of the extracellular matrix (ECM), and local cell-cell interactions, are determinants of glial cell phenotypes. In AD, the load of the cytotoxic/proinflammatory amyloid β (Aβ) peptide is a microenvironmental component increasingly growing in the CNS, imposing time-evolving challenges on resident cells. This study aimed to investigate the temporal and spatial variations of the effects produced by this process on astrocytes and microglia, either directly or by interfering in their interactions. Ex vivo confocal analyses of hippocampal sections from the mouse model TgCRND8 at different ages have shown that overproduction of Aβ peptide induced early and time-persistent disassembly of functional astroglial syncytium and promoted a senile phenotype of reactive microglia, hindering Aβ clearance. In the late stages of the disease, these patterns were altered in the presence of Aβ-plaques, surrounded by typically reactive astrocytes and microglia. Morphofunctional characterization of peri-plaque gliosis revealed a direct contribution of astrocytes in plaque buildup that might result in shielding Aβ-peptide cytotoxicity and, as a side effect, in exacerbating neuroinflammation.

536. Transcriptomic Analysis in the Hippocampus and Retina of Tg2576 AD Mice Reveals Defective Mitochondrial Oxidative Phosphorylation and Recovery by Tau 12A12mAb Treatment.
Abstract: Increasing evidence implicates decreased energy metabolism and mitochondrial dysfunctions among the earliest pathogenic events of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the molecular mechanisms underlying bioenergetic dysfunctions in AD remain, to date, largely unknown. In this work, we analyzed transcriptomic changes occurring in the hippocampus and retina of a Tg2576 AD mouse model and wild-type controls, evaluating their functional implications by gene set enrichment analysis. The results revealed that oxidative phosphorylation and mitochondrial-related pathways are significantly down-regulated in both tissues of Tg2576 mice, supporting the role of these processes in the pathogenesis of AD. In addition, we also analyzed transcriptomic changes occurring in Tg2576 mice treated with the 12A12 monoclonal antibody that neutralizes an AD-relevant tau-derived neurotoxic peptide in vivo. Our analysis showed that the mitochondrial alterations observed in AD mice were significantly reverted by treatment with 12A12mAb, supporting bioenergetic pathways as key mediators of its in vivo neuroprotective and anti-amyloidogenic effects. This study provides, for the first time, a comprehensive characterization of molecular events underlying the disrupted mitochondrial bioenergetics in AD pathology, laying the foundation for the future development of diagnostic and therapeutic tools.

537. Differential Gene Expression in Activated Microglia Treated with Adenosine A2A Receptor Antagonists Highlights Olfactory Receptor 56 and T-Cell Activation GTPase-Activating Protein 1 as Potential Biomarkers of the Polarization of Activated Microglia.
Abstract: Microglial activation often accompanies the plastic changes occurring in the brain of patients with neurodegenerative diseases. A2A and A3 adenosine receptors have been proposed as therapeutic targets to combat neurodegeneration. RNAseq was performed using samples isolated from lipopolysaccharide/interferon-γ activated microglia treated with SCH 58261, a selective A2A receptor antagonist, and with both SCH 58261 and 2-Cl-IB-MECA, a selective A3 receptor agonist. None of the treatments led to any clear microglial phenotype when gene expression for classical biomarkers of microglial polarization was assessed. However, many of the downregulated genes were directly or indirectly related to immune system-related events. Searching for genes whose expression was both significantly and synergistically affected when treated with the two adenosine receptor ligands, the AC122413.1 and Olfr56 were selected among those that were, respectively, upregulated and downregulated. We therefore propose that the products of these genes, olfactory receptor 56 and T-cell activation GTPase-activating protein 1, deserve attention as potential biomarkers of phenotypes that occur upon microglial activation.

538. Preferential Regulation of Γ-Secretase-Mediated Cleavage of APP by Ganglioside GM1 Reveals a Potential Therapeutic Target for Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: A hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the senile plaque, which contains β-amyloid peptides (Aβ). Ganglioside GM1 is the most common brain ganglioside. However, the mechanism of GM1 in modulating Aβ processing is rarely known. Aβ levels are detected by using Immunohistochemistry (IHC) and enzyme-linked immune-sorbent assay (ELISA). Cryo-electron microscopy (Cryo-EM) is used to determine the structure of γ-secretase supplemented with GM1. The levels of the cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP)/Cadherin/Notch1 are detected using Western blot analysis. Y maze, object translocation, and Barnes maze are performed to evaluate cognitive functions. GM1 leads to conformational change of γ-secretase structure and specifically accelerates γ-secretase cleavage of APP without affecting other substrates including Notch1, potentially through its interaction with the N-terminal fragment of presenilin 1 (PS1). Reduction of GM1 levels decreases amyloid plaque deposition and improves cognitive dysfunction. This study reveals the mechanism of GM1 in Aβ generation and provides the evidence that decreasing GM1 levels represents a potential strategy in AD treatment. These results provide insights into the detailed mechanism of the effect of GM1 on PS1, representing a step toward the characterization of its novel role in the modulation of γ-secretase activity and the pathogenesis of AD.

539. PI3K-AKT activation resculpts integrin signaling to drive filamentous tau-induced proinflammatory astrogliosis.
Abstract: Microtubule-binding protein tau is a misfolding-prone protein associated with tauopathies. As tau undergoes cell-to-cell transmission, extracellular tau aggregates convert astrocytes into a pro-inflammatory state via integrin activation, causing them to release unknown neurotoxic factors.

540. Identification and verification of genes associated with hypoxia microenvironment in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: As the incidence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) increases year by year, more people begin to study this disease. In recent years, many studies on reactive oxygen species (ROS), neuroinflammation, autophagy, and other fields have confirmed that hypoxia is closely related to AD. However, no researchers have used bioinformatics methods to study the relationship between AD and hypoxia. Therefore, our study aimed to screen the role of hypoxia-related genes in AD and clarify their diagnostic significance. A total of 7681 differentially expressed genes (DEGs) were identified in GSE33000 by differential expression analysis and cluster analysis. Weighted gene co-expression network analysis (WGCNA) was used to detect 9 modules and 205 hub genes with high correlation coefficients. Next, machine learning algorithms were applied to 205 hub genes and four key genes were selected. Through the verification of external dataset and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR), the AD diagnostic model was established by ANTXR2, BDNF and NFKBIA. The bioinformatics analysis results suggest that hypoxia-related genes may increase the risk of AD. However, more in-depth studies are still needed to investigate their association, this article would guide the insights and directions for further research.

541. Rosavin thwarts amyloid-β-induced macromolecular damages and neurotoxicity, exhibiting anti-Alzheimer's disease activity in Wister rat model.
Abstract: Lately, interest surrounding the utilization of plant-derived compounds as a viable beneficial approach for treating Alzheimer's disease (AD) has significantly increased. This study aimed to assess the defensive properties of rosavin against Alzheimer's disease induced by amyloid-β, utilizing experimental models. We found that rosavin exhibited anti-aggregation and disaggregation properties, suggesting its potential to prevent the gathering of Aβ-aggregates. In vitro experiments revealed that rosavin effectively mitigated the neurotoxicity induced by Aβ in Neuro-2a cells, showcasing its protective potential. Rosavin significantly improved the Aβ-induced cognitive deficits in Wistar rats, particularly in spatial memory. Which the pathophysiology of AD includes oxidative damage, which negatively impacts biological macromolecules. Triggers the apoptotic process, causing macromolecular destruction. Interestingly, rosavin attenuated Aβ-induced macromolecular damages, thereby preserving neuronal integrity. Furthermore, the activation of antioxidative defense enzymes by rosavin inhibited oxidative damage. The positive outcomes associated with rosavin were primarily attributed to its capacity to enhance acetylcholine-mediated effects. Finally, rosavin has the potential to alleviate Aβ-induced neurotoxicity and macromolecular damages, ultimately resulting in enhanced memorial and reasoning function in Wistar rats, offering promising prospects for the treatment of AD.

542. Senolytic therapy for Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Abstract not available for PMID: 37758897

543. Application of Pt@ZIF-8 nanocomposite-based electrochemical biosensor for sensitive diagnosis of tau protein in Alzheimer's disease patients.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive brain disorder characterized by the ongoing decline of brain functions. Studies have revealed the detrimental effects of hyperphosphorylated tau (p-tau) protein fibrils in AD pathogenesis, highlighting the importance of this factor in the early-stage detection of AD conditions. We designed an electrochemical immunosensor for quantitative detection of the cis conformation of the p-tau protein (cis-p-tau) employing platinum nanoparticles (Pt NPs) supported on zeolitic imidazolate frameworks (ZIF) for modifying the glassy carbon electrode (GCE) surface. Under optimum conditions, the immunosensor selectively and sensitively detected cis-p-tau within the broad linear range of 1 fg mL-1 to 10 ng mL-1 and the low limit of detection (LOD) of 1 fg mL-1 with desired reproducibility and stability. Furthermore, the fabricated immunosensor's performance was examined for the cis-p-tau analysis in the serum of AD patients, indicating its accuracy and feasibility for real-sample analysis. Notably, this is the first application of Pt@ZIF-8 nanocomposite in fabricating a valid immunosensor for selective cis-p-tau detection, even in the presence of trans-p-tau. It is worth mentioning that the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) reference technique is not able to evaluate pico- or femtomolar concentrations of cis-p-tau, making the fabricated immunosensor superior for early-stage measurement and screening of AD.

544. Validating virtual administration of neuropsychological testing in Parkinson disease: a pilot study.
Abstract: COVID-19 has highlighted the need for remote cognitive testing, but the reliability and validity of virtual cognitive testing in Parkinson disease (PD) is unknown. Therefore, we assessed PD participants enrolled in an observational, cognition-focused study with an extensive cognitive battery completed both in-person and via video conference close in time. Data for 35 PD participants with normal cognition to mild dementia were analyzed. Only one test (semantic verbal fluency) demonstrated a difference in score by administration type, with a significantly better score virtually. Only three tests demonstrated good reliability for in-person versus virtual testing, but reliability values for visit 1 versus visit 2 were similarly low overall. Trail Making Test B was successfully administered virtually to only 18 participants due to technical issues. Virtual and in-person cognitive testing generate similar scores at the group level, but with poor to moderate reliability for most tests. Mode of test administration, learning effects, and technical difficulties explained little of the low test-retest reliability, indicating possible significant short-term variability in cognitive performance in PD in general, which has implications for clinical care and research. In-person cognitive testing with a neuropsychologist remains the gold standard, and it remains to be determined if virtual cognitive testing is feasible in PD.

545. Identification of neoepitope reactive T-cell receptors guided by HLA-A*03:01 and HLA-A*11:01 immunopeptidomics.
Abstract: Tumor-specific mutated proteins can create immunogenic non-self, mutation-containing 'neoepitopes' that are attractive targets for adoptive T-cell therapies. To avoid the complexity of defining patient-specific, private neoepitopes, there has been major interest in targeting common shared mutations in driver genes using off-the-shelf T-cell receptors (TCRs) engineered into autologous lymphocytes. However, identifying the precise naturally processed neoepitopes to pursue is a complex and challenging process. One method to definitively demonstrate whether an epitope is presented at the cell surface is to elute peptides bound to a specific major histocompatibility complex (MHC) allele and analyze them by mass spectrometry (MS). These MS data can then be prospectively applied to isolate TCRs specific to the neoepitope.

546. Genetic Insights on the Relation of Vascular Risk Factors and Cervical Artery Dissection.
Abstract: The association between vascular risk factors and cervical artery dissections (CeADs), a leading cause of ischemic stroke (IS) in the young, remains controversial.

547. Multilayered Bioorthogonal SERS Nanoprobes Selectively Aggregating in Human Fluids: A Smart Optical Assay for β-Amyloid Peptide Quantification.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a debilitating neurological condition characterized by cognitive decline, memory loss, and behavioral skill impairment, features that worsen with time. Early diagnosis will likely be the most effective therapy for Alzheimer's disease since it can ensure timely pharmacological treatments that can reduce the irreversible progression and delay the symptoms. Amyloid β-peptide 1-42 (Aβ (1-42)) is considered one of the key pathological AD biomarkers that is present in different biological fluids. However, Aβ (1-42) detection still relies on colorimetric and enzyme-linked immunoassays as the gold standard characterized by low accuracy or high costs, respectively. In this context, optical detection techniques based on surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) through advanced nanoconstructs are promising alternatives for the development of novel rapid and low-cost methods for the targeting of Aβ pathological biomarkers in fluids. Here, a multilayered nanoprobe constituted by bioorthogonal Raman reporters (RRs) embedded within two layers of gold nanoparticles (Au@RRs@AuNPs) has been developed and successfully validated for specific detection of Aβ (1-42) in the human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with sensitivity down to pg/mL. The smart double-layer configuration enables us to exploit the outer gold NP surfaces for selective absorption of targeted peptide whose concentration controls the aggregation behavior of Au@RRs@AuNPs, proportionally reflected in Raman intensity changes, providing high specificity and sensitivity and representing a significant step ahead of the state of the art on SERS for clinical analyses.

548. SIRT1 and miR-34a-5p expression in PBMCs as potential biomarkers for Type 2 Diabetes Patients with Cognitive Impairments.
Abstract: Patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) are at significantly increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, no biomarkers are available for early identification of T2DM patients with cognitive impairment (T2DM-CI). Mitochondrial dysfunction is linked to AD. Silent Information Regulator 1 (SIRT1), which is responsible for regulating mitochondrial biogenesis, and its related miRNAs were also altered in AD.

549. Canine cognitive decline and Alzheimer disease: clinical insights to solve a shared one-health problem.
Abstract: Alzheimer disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia among older adults. Current AD treatment options are limited, and the absence of appropriate research animals has significantly hindered the development of new AD therapies. Canine cognitive decline (CCD) is a major determinant of morbidity in older animals, with alterations in blood biomarkers, neuropathology, physiology, and behavior comparable to those seen in humans diagnosed with dementia and AD. The one-health goal of achieving optimal health is supported by academics, researchers, and governments. Veterinarians' ability to identify patients in the early stages of CCD is crucial to the successful implementation of interventions that can improve the quality of life of affected dogs. Timely identification of CCD also opens opportunities for innovative interdisciplinary research that will contribute to a better understanding of the underlying mechanisms, early detection, and effective treatments for AD, ultimately benefiting human health as well. Until now, veterinary practitioners have played limited roles as interdisciplinary leaders in the One Health initiative to combat disease. The authors discuss how client-owned animals with spontaneous, naturally occurring CCD can play a significant role as disease-relevant surrogates for translational AD research. The proposed Dogs Overcoming Geriatric Memory and Aging (DOGMA) Study to be conducted in veterinary practices will analyze the relationship between blood biomarkers and biometric behavior in mature and older dogs, with the aim of establishing benchmark CCD data. The DOGMA Study is addressed in the companion Currents in One Health by Hunter et al, AJVR, November 2023.

550. The Role of Rehabilitation for Early-Stage Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementias: Practice and Priorities.
Abstract: The World Health Organization (WHO) defines rehabilitation as a "a set of interventions designed to optimize functioning and reduce disability in individuals with health conditions in interaction with their environment".1 Rehabilitation services are typically seeking to enhance functional capacity and health, either in concert with, or in place of pharmacological interventions. These services typically fall into two categories, restorative, where the client endeavors to return to a prior level of independent function, and compensatory, where s/he may not. In the latter case, clients might receive, and be trained to use, technology aids or other external supports to enable them to engage in a safe, healthy, and meaningful day-to-day life. For some populations, however, even enhanced functional capacity can present in the form of an insidious, albeit slower decline. So, what is, or should, rehabilitation's role be in progressive neurological conditions? Specifically, what are the policy and practice implications of rehabilitation for (not in the presence of, but for) the care of persons living with neurodegenerative conditions such as Alzheimer's Disease and Alzheimer's Disease Related Dementias (AD/ADRD)?

551. Screening strategies and dynamic risk prediction models for Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Characterizing the progression from Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to Alzheimer's disease (AD) is essential for early AD prevention and targeted intervention. Our goal was to construct precise screening schemes for individuals with different risk of AD and to establish prognosis models for them.

552. Clinical characteristics of pathological confirmed prodromal dementia with Lewy bodies.
Abstract: Misdiagnosis rate of Dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) remains high despite being second most common cause of neurodegenerative dementia. To date, understanding of clinical profile of pathologically confirmed prodromal DLB remains limited. The main objective of this study was to describe and compare it with pathologically confirmed Alzheimer's disease (AD).

553. Alzheimer's Disease: A Review of Pathology, Current Treatments, and the Potential Therapeutic Effect of Decreasing Oxidative Stress by Combined Vitamin D and L-Cysteine Supplementation.
Abstract: Excess oxidative stress and neuro-inflammation are risk factors in the onset and progression of AD and its association with amyloid- (A) plaque accumulation. Oxidative stress impairs acetylcholine (ACH) and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDA receptor) signaling in brain areas that function in memory and learning. Glutathione (GSH) antioxidant depletion positively correlates with the cognitive decline in AD subjects. Treatments that upregulate GSH and ACH levels, which simultaneously decrease oxidative stress and inflammation, may be beneficial for AD.

554. Toward Personalized Medicine Approaches for Parkinson Disease Using Digital Technologies.
Abstract: Parkinson disease (PD) is a complex neurodegenerative disorder that afflicts over 10 million people worldwide, resulting in debilitating motor and cognitive impairment. In the United States alone (with approximately 1 million cases), the economic burden for treating and caring for persons with PD exceeds US $50 billion and myriad therapeutic approaches are under development, including both symptomatic- and disease-modifying agents. The challenges presented in addressing PD are compounded by observations that numerous, statistically distinct patient phenotypes present with a wide variety of motor and nonmotor symptomatic profiles, varying responses to current standard-of-care symptom-alleviating medications (L-DOPA and dopaminergic agonists), and different disease trajectories. The existence of these differing phenotypes highlights the opportunities in personalized approaches to symptom management and disease control. The prodromal period of PD can span across several decades, allowing the potential to leverage the unique array of composite symptoms presented to trigger early interventions. This may be especially beneficial as disease progression in PD (alongside Alzheimer disease and Huntington disease) may be influenced by biological processes such as oxidative stress, offering the potential for individual lifestyle factors to be tailored to delay disease onset. In this viewpoint, we offer potential scenarios where emerging diagnostic and monitoring strategies might be tailored to the individual patient under the tenets of P4 medicine (predict, prevent, personalize, and participate). These approaches may be especially relevant as the causative factors and biochemical pathways responsible for the observed neurodegeneration in patients with PD remain areas of fluid debate. The numerous observational patient cohorts established globally offer an excellent opportunity to test and refine approaches to detect, characterize, control, modify the course, and ultimately stop progression of this debilitating disease. Such approaches may also help development of parallel interventive strategies in other diseases such as Alzheimer disease and Huntington disease, which share common traits and etiologies with PD. In this overview, we highlight near-term opportunities to apply P4 medicine principles for patients with PD and introduce the concept of composite orthogonal patient monitoring.

555. Pincer Ligands as Multifunctional Agents for Alzheimer's Copper Dysregulation and Oxidative Stress: A Computational Evaluation.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia worldwide, affecting millions of people around the globe. AD is characterized by different pathologies being beta-amyloid (Aβ) plaque formation, metal ion dysregulation, and oxidative stress central topics under investigation. Copper-Aβ complexes have been shown to induce catalytic hydrogen peroxide formation and increase OS in the brain leading to neuronal death. Pincer-type compounds are tridentate ligands that coordinate metals in a planar fashion whose properties can be tuned via group substitutions, giving rise to many possibilities in catalysis and drug discovery. In this work we evaluated the potential pharmaceutical activity of 26 pincer compounds in AD's copper ion-related oxidative stress framework. In this sense, four key aspects were considered: 1) Lipinski's rule of five, 2) blood-brain barrier permeation, 3) standard reduction potential (SRP) of the formed copper complexes, and 4) the ligand's affinity towards copper cations. The evaluation of these criteria was performed by means of bioinformatic tools and electronic structure calculations at the DFT level of theory. Our results suggest that two compounds from this set are potential antioxidant agents, whereas five of them are promissory distributor-like compounds in the context of AD.

556. Who Should-and Can-Get Lecanemab, the New Alzheimer Disease Drug?
Abstract: This Medical News story examines the complexity of determining who to treat with lecanemab, the new Alzheimer disease drug.

557. Role of Registries in Medicare Coverage of New Alzheimer Disease Drugs.
Abstract: This Viewpoint discusses how the design of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) registry could impact Medicare’s ability to evaluate whether monoclonal antibodies are reasonable and necessary for patients with Alzheimer disease and help physicians understand when the drug is most beneficial.

558. Decoding the Cellular Trafficking of Prion-like Proteins in Neurodegenerative Diseases.
Abstract: The accumulation and spread of prion-like proteins is a key feature of neurodegenerative diseases (NDs) such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, or Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis. In a process known as 'seeding', prion-like proteins such as amyloid beta, microtubule-associated protein tau, α-synuclein, silence superoxide dismutase 1, or transactive response DNA-binding protein 43 kDa, propagate their misfolded conformations by transforming their respective soluble monomers into fibrils. Cellular and molecular evidence of prion-like propagation in NDs, the clinical relevance of their 'seeding' capacities, and their levels of contribution towards disease progression have been intensively studied over recent years. This review unpacks the cyclic prion-like propagation in cells including factors of aggregate internalization, endo-lysosomal leaking, aggregate degradation, and secretion. Debates on the importance of the role of prion-like protein aggregates in NDs, whether causal or consequent, are also discussed. Applications lead to a greater understanding of ND pathogenesis and increased potential for therapeutic strategies.

559. Protective Effects of Repetitive Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation Against Streptozotocin-Induced Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a non-invasive brain stimulation under investigation for treatment of a wide range of neurological disorders. In particular, the therapeutic application of rTMS for neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) is attracting attention. However, the mechanisms underlying the therapeutic efficacy of rTMS have not yet been elucidated, and few studies have systematically analyzed the stimulation parameters. In this study, we found that treatment with rTMS contributed to restoration of memory deficits by activating genes involved in synaptic plasticity and long-term memory. We evaluated changes in several intracellular signaling pathways in response to rTMS stimulation; rTMS treatment activated STAT, MAPK, Akt/p70S6K, and CREB signaling. We also systematically investigated the influence of rTMS parameters. We found an effective range of applications for rTMS and determined the optimal combination to achieve the highest efficiency. Moreover, application of rTMS inhibited the increase in cell death induced by hydrogen peroxide. These results suggest that rTMS treatment exerts a neuroprotective effect on cellular damage induced by oxidative stress, which plays an important role in the pathogenesis of neurological disorders. rTMS treatment attenuated streptozotocin (STZ)-mediated cell death and AD-like pathology in neuronal cells. In an animal model of sporadic AD caused by intracerebroventricular STZ injection, rTMS application improved cognitive decline and showed neuroprotective effects on hippocampal histology. Overall, this study will help in the design of stimulation protocols for rTMS application and presents a novel mechanism that may explain the therapeutic effects of rTMS in neurodegenerative diseases, including AD.

560. Nutritional, Antioxidant, Antimicrobial, and Anticholinesterase Properties of Phyllanthus emblica: A Study Supported by Spectroscopic and Computational Investigations.
Abstract: Dietary fruits and vegetables play a vital role as food and drugs and are the main sources of antioxidant defences against degenerative diseases, such as brain dysfunctions, cardiovascular diseases, immune system deteriorations, and cancers, brought on by oxidative damage. Phyllanthus emblica is a significant herbal remedy used in conventional medicine to recover lost strength and power. In this research, the potential value of Phyllanthus emblica as a food and drug is researched. The total phenolic, total flavonoid, and total tannin contents as well as the nutritional value, vitamin C, vitamin E, and mineral contents of different organs of P. emblica were evaluated. The antioxidant and antimicrobial activities of extracts and fractions of different organs of P. emblica were determined. A total of eleven flavonoids, simple phenolic, tannin-related phenolic, and tannin molecules were isolated from a hydroalcoholic extract of the leaves and fruits. The structures were identified by spectroscopic data and comparison with the literature values as gallic acid (1), naringenin 7-O-(6″-O-galloyl)-β-D-glucopyranoside (2), 3,3'-di-O-methyl ellagic acid-4'-O-β-d-glucopyranoside (3), 1-O-galloyl glycerol (4), 1,6-di-O-galloyl-β-d-glucopyranoside (5), flavogallonic acid bislactone (6), corilagin (7), ethyl gallate (8), urolithin M5 (9), (E)-p-coumaroyl-1-O-β-d-glucopyranoside (10), and 1,2,4,6-tetra-O-galloyl-β-d-glucopyranoside (11). Among them, compounds 3 and 10 are first isolated from the plant. Molecular docking was performed to investigate the comparative interactions between positive controls (galantamine and donepezil) and selected compounds utilizing acetylcholinesterase (4EY7) as a target receptor. Results exhibited the potency of these compounds against the target receptor. In summary, P. emblica has a wealth of minerals, vitamins C and E, and polyphenolic phytochemicals that may work together to treat infectious disease, prevent and/or treat oxidative-damage-related illnesses including Alzheimer's disease.

561. Dementia Simulation for Family Caregivers of Persons With Dementia: A Scoping Review.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease and related dementias are becoming increasingly prevalent worldwide. Persons with dementia receive substantial assistance from family caregivers over extended periods of time. Family caregivers of persons with dementia are twice as likely to report physical, emotional, and financial challenges related to caregiving compared with other types of family caregivers. Empathy has been demonstrated to improve caregivers' quality of life and their relationships with care recipients.

562. Nutritional Care for Institutionalized Persons with Dementia: An Integrative Review.
Abstract: Older people are at risk of malnutrition, especially when they suffer from cognitive impairment. Guidelines that orient nursing care in this regard need to be updated. The aim of this review is to address the best available evidence on interventions that can benefit nutritional nursing care for institutionalized older adults with dementia.

563. Integrated Multimodal Omics and Dietary Approaches for the Management of Neurodegeneration.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease, are caused by a combination of multiple events that damage neuronal function. A well-characterized biomarker of neurodegeneration is the accumulation of proteinaceous aggregates in the brain. However, the gradually worsening symptoms of neurodegenerative diseases are unlikely to be solely due to the result of a mutation in a single gene, but rather a multi-step process involving epigenetic changes. Recently, it has been suggested that a fraction of epigenetic alternations may be correlated to neurodegeneration in the brain. Unlike DNA mutations, epigenetic alterations are reversible, and therefore raise the possibilities for therapeutic intervention, including dietary modifications. Additionally, reactive oxygen species may contribute to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease through epigenetic alternation. Given that the antioxidant properties of plant-derived phytochemicals are likely to exhibit pleiotropic effects against ROS-mediated epigenetic alternation, dietary intervention may be promising for the management of neurodegeneration in these diseases. In this review, the state-of-the-art applications using single-cell multimodal omics approaches, including epigenetics, and dietary approaches for the identification of novel biomarkers and therapeutic approaches for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases are discussed.

564. SERS-Based Optical Nanobiosensors for the Detection of Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a leading cause of dementia, impacting millions worldwide. However, its complex neuropathologic features and heterogeneous pathophysiology present significant challenges for diagnosis and treatment. To address the urgent need for early AD diagnosis, this review focuses on surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS)-based biosensors, leveraging the excellent optical properties of nanomaterials to enhance detection performance. These highly sensitive and noninvasive biosensors offer opportunities for biomarker-driven clinical diagnostics and precision medicine. The review highlights various types of SERS-based biosensors targeting AD biomarkers, discussing their potential applications and contributions to AD diagnosis. Specific details about nanomaterials and targeted AD biomarkers are provided. Furthermore, the future research directions and challenges for improving AD marker detection using SERS sensors are outlined.

565. Ternary Heterojunction Graphitic Carbon Nitride/Cupric Sulfide/Titanium Dioxide Photoelectrochemical Sensor for Sesamol Quantification and Antioxidant Synergism.
Abstract: Sesamol (SM) is a potent natural antioxidant that can quench free radicals and modulate the cholinergic system in the brain, thereby ameliorating memory and cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease patients. Moreover, the total antioxidant capacity can be amplified by synergistic interactions between different antioxidants. Here, we constructed a ternary heterojunction graphitic carbon nitride/cupric sulfide/titanium dioxide (g-C3N4/CuS/TiO2) photoelectrochemical (PEC) sensor for the quantification of SM and its synergistic interactions with other antioxidants. Crucially, the Schottky barrier in ternary semiconductors considerably enhances electron transfer. The PEC sensor showed a wide linear range for SM detection, ranging from 2 to 1277 μmol L-1, and had a limit of detection of 1.8 μmol L-1. Remarkably, this sensing platform could evaluate the synergism between SM and five typical lipid-soluble antioxidants: tert-butyl hydroquinone, vitamin E, butyl hydroxyanisole, propyl gallate, and butylated hydroxytoluene. Owing to its low redox potential, SM could reduce antioxidant radicals and promote their regeneration, which increased the overall antioxidant performance. The g-C3N4/CuS/TiO2 PEC sensor exhibited high sensitivity, satisfactory selectivity, and stability, and was successfully applied for SM determination in both soybean and peanut oils. The findings of this study provide guidance for the development of nutritional foods, nutrition analysis, and the treatment of diseases caused by free radicals.

566. Motor-Cognitive Interventions May Effectively Improve Cognitive Function in Older Adults with Mild Cognitive Impairment: A Randomized Controlled Trial.
Abstract: Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is a syndrome that occurs in the preclinical stage of Alzheimer's disease. Early intervention can be effective in preventing Alzheimer's disease, but further research is needed on intervention methods. To identify interventions that are more suitable for Chinese characteristics and to investigate the effects of motor-cognitive intervention on the cognitive functions of older adults with MCI, we screened 103 community-dwelling older adults with MCI aged 65 years and older in Qingdao, Shandong, China; divided them into an intervention group and a control group; and administered a motor-cognitive intervention to the intervention group for 12 weeks. The study used the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and the Montreal Cognitive Assessment (MoCA) to assess the initial cognitive level of the MCI participants and detect the effects of the intervention. We found that the cognitive abilities of the intervention group were significantly improved at the end of the intervention, as well as at the end of the follow-up, compared with the control group. The results of the current study suggest that the motor-cognitive intervention we used may improve the cognition of older people with MCI in the Chinese community.

567. Phytoconstituents of Ashwagandha as potential inhibitors of human islet amyloid polypeptide (hIAPP): an in silico investigation.
Abstract: Amylin or human islet amyloid polypeptide (hIAPP) is a small peptide co-secreted with insulin. Its peripheral aggregation on the lipid bilayer leads to fibril formation. The formation of hIAPP fibrils is hypothesized to rupture the membrane of β -cells, which culminates in β-cell death. Following additional studies, amylin fibril formation is a hallmark of T2DM and is also implicitly responsible for Alzheimer's disease. This study reports the virtual screening of 1000 phytoconstituents of traditional Indian medicinal plants to get potential inhibitors of amylin, which will likely restrict and block amyloid aggregation, preventing the progression of T2DM and Alzheimer's illness. The compounds having drug-likeness properties (acquired from ADMET calculations) and highest binding affinities (from molecular docking) are subjected to molecular dynamics (MD) simulation to investigate the temporal stability of the conformations of the complexes. This study discovers that Withaferin A and Withacoagulin have the highest binding affinity for amylin, and their stability with amylin was verified further by parameters such as RMSD, RMSF, number of H-bonds and MMPBSA. Individual principle component analysis (PCA) confirms the stable complex formation of amylin with Withaferin A and Withacoagulin. We strongly believe that wet-lab experiments and clinical trials will help to validate our computational findings.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.

568. Spectroscopic features of a perylenediimide probe for sensing amyloid fibrils: in vivo imaging of Aβ-aggregates in a Drosophila model organism.
Abstract: Customised perylenediimide (PDI) chromophores find diverse applications not only as chemosensors, inorganic-organic semiconductors, photovoltaics, photocatalysts, etc., but also in protein surface engineering, bio-sensors and drug delivery systems. This study focuses on the interaction of a custom synthesized phenylalanine derivatized perylenediimide (L-Phe-PDI) dye with a model protein, insulin, and its structurally distinct fibrils to develop fluorescence sensors for fibrillar aggregates and in vivo imaging applications. Detailed photophysical studies revealed that L-Phe-PDI gets aggregated in the presence of insulin and causes emission quenching at pH 7.4, which in the absence of insulin occurs only at pH ∼2. During in vitro incubation of insulin to its fibrils, the fluorescence intensity of the L-Phe-PDI probe is enhanced to ∼150 fold in a two-stage manner, manifesting the pathways of structural transformation to β-sheet rich mature fibrils. The in vivo sensing has further been validated in living models of the Aβ-mutant Drosophila fly, which is known to develop progressive neurodegeneration comparable to that of human brains with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Bioimaging of the L-Phe-PDI treated Aβ-mutant Drosophila documented the blood-brain/blood-retina-barrier cross-over ability of L-Phe-PDI with no toxic effects. Comparison of the fibrillar images from the brain and eye region with the reference thioflavin T (ThT) probe established the uptake of L-Phe-PDI by the aggregate/fibrillar moieties. The samples from L-Phe-PDI-treated flies apparently displayed reduced fibrillar spots, a possible case of L-Phe-PDI-induced disintegration of fibrillar aggregates at large, an observation substantiated by the improved phenotype activities as compared to the untreated flies. The findings reported both in vitro and in vivo with the L-Phe-PDI material for the first time open up avenues to explore the therapeutic potential of custom-designed PDI derivatives for amyloid fibril sensors and bioimaging.

569. Neuroprotective effects of riluzole in Alzheimer's disease: A comprehensive review.
Abstract: Despite several hundred clinical trials of drugs that initially showed promise, there has been limited clinical improvement in Alzheimer's disease (AD). This may be attributed to the existence of at least 25 abnormal cellular pathways that underlie the disease. It is improbable for a single drug to address all or most of these pathways, thus even drugs that show promise when administered alone are unlikely to produce significant results. According to previous studies, eight drugs, namely, dantrolene, erythropoietin, lithium, memantine, minocycline, piracetam, riluzole, and silymarin, have been found to target multiple pathways that are involved in the development of AD. Among these drugs, riluzole is currently indicated for the treatment of medical conditions in both adult patients and children and has gained increased attention from scientists due to its potential in the excitotoxic hypothesis of neurodegenerative diseases.

570. Laboratory and free-living gait performance in adults with COPD and healthy controls.
Abstract: Gait characteristics are important risk factors for falls, hospitalisations and mortality in older adults, but the impact of COPD on gait performance remains unclear. We aimed to identify differences in gait characteristics between adults with COPD and healthy age-matched controls during 1) laboratory tests that included complex movements and obstacles, 2) simulated daily-life activities (supervised) and 3) free-living daily-life activities (unsupervised).

571. Non-Coding RNA in Microglia Activation and Neuroinflammation in Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by complex pathophysiological features. Amyloid plaques resulting from extracellular amyloid deposition and neurofibrillary tangles formed by intracellular hyperphosphorylated tau accumulation serve as primary neuropathological criteria for AD diagnosis. The activation of microglia has been closely associated with these pathological manifestations. Non-coding RNA (ncRNA), a versatile molecule involved in various cellular functions such as genetic information storage and transport, as well as catalysis of biochemical reactions, plays a crucial role in microglial activation. This review aims to investigate the regulatory role of ncRNAs in protein expression by directly targeting genes, proteins, and interactions. Furthermore, it explores the ability of ncRNAs to modulate inflammatory pathways, influence the expression of inflammatory factors, and regulate microglia activation, all of which contribute to neuroinflammation and AD. However, there are still significant controversies surrounding microglial activation and polarization. The categorization into M1 and M2 phenotypes may oversimplify the intricate and multifaceted regulatory processes in microglial response to neuroinflammation. Limited research has been conducted on the role of ncRNAs in regulating microglial activation and inducing distinct polarization states in the context of neuroinflammation. Moreover, the regulatory mechanisms through which ncRNAs govern microglial function continue to be refined. The current understanding of ncRNA regulatory pathways involved in microglial activation remains incomplete and may be influenced by spatial, temporal, and tissue-specific factors. Therefore, further in-depth investigations are warranted. In conclusion, there are ongoing debates and uncertainties regarding the activation and polarization of microglial cells, particularly concerning the categorization into M1 and M2 phenotypes. The study of ncRNA regulation in microglial activation and polarization, as well as its mechanisms, is still in its early stages and requires further investigation. However, this review offers new insights and opportunities for therapeutic approaches in AD. The development of ncRNA-based drugs may hold promise as a new direction in AD treatment.

572. Linguistic, visuospatial, and kinematic writing characteristics in cognitively impaired patients with beta-amyloid deposition.
Abstract: Beta-amyloid (Aβ) deposition, a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD), begins before dementia and is an important factor in mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Aβ deposition is a recognized risk factor for various cognitive impairments and has been reported to affect motor performance as well. This study aimed to identify the linguistic, visuospatial, and kinematic characteristics evident in the writing performance of patients with cognitive impairment (CI) who exhibit Aβ deposition.

573. Plasma Aβ42/40 and cognitive variability are associated with cognitive function in Black Americans: Findings from the AA-FAIM cohort.
Abstract: It is critical to develop more inclusive Alzheimer's disease (AD) research protocols to ensure that historically excluded groups are included in preclinical research and have access to timely diagnosis and treatment. If validated in racialized groups, plasma AD biomarkers and measures of subtle cognitive dysfunction could provide avenues to expand diversity in preclinical AD research. We sought to evaluate the utility of two easily obtained, low-burden disease markers, plasma amyloid beta (Aβ)42/40, and intra-individual cognitive variability (IICV), to predict concurrent and longitudinal cognitive performance in a sample of Black adults.

574. Extended interval dosing of ocrelizumab modifies the repopulation of B cells without altering the clinical efficacy in multiple sclerosis.
Abstract: Recent studies suggest that extended interval dosing of ocrelizumab, an anti-B cell therapy, does not affect its clinical effectiveness in most patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). However, it remains to be established whether certain B cell subsets are differentially repopulated after different dosing intervals and whether these subsets relate to clinical efficacy.

575. Interventions that may increase control at the end of life in persons with dementia: the cross-cultural CONT-END acceptability study protocol and pilot-testing.
Abstract: Interventions such as advance care planning (ACP), technology, or access to euthanasia may increase the sense of control over the end of life. In people with advanced dementia, the loss of cognitive and physical function limits the ability to control care. To date, little is known about the acceptability of these interventions from the perspective of persons with dementia and others involved. This study will examine the cross-cultural acceptability, and factors associated with acceptability, of four end-of-life interventions in dementia which contain an element of striving for control. Also, we report on the development and pilot testing of animation video vignettes that explain the interventions in a standardized manner.

576. Review of PINK1-Parkin-mediated mitochondrial autophagy in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Mitochondrial autophagy plays an important role in maintaining the complexity of mitochondrial functions and removing damaged mitochondria, of which the PINK1-Parkin signal pathway is one of the most classical pathways. Thus, a comprehensive and in-depth interpretation of the PINK1-Parkin signal pathway might deepen our understanding on the impacts of mitochondrial autophagy. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a classical example of neurodegenerative disease. Research on the pathogenesis and treatments of AD has been a focus of scientific research because of its complexity and the limitations of current drug therapies. It was reported that the pathogenesis of AD might be related to mitochondrial autophagy due to excessive deposition of Aβ protein and aggravation of the phosphorylation of Tau protein. Two key proteins in the PINK1-Parkin signaling pathway, PINK1 and Parkin, have important roles in the folding and accumulation of Aβ protein and the phosphorylation of Tau protein. In addition, the intermediate signal molecules in the PINK1-Parkin signal pathway also have certain effects on AD. In this paper, we first described the role of PINK1-Parkin signal pathway on mitochondrial autophagy, then discussed and analyzed the effect of the PINK1-Parkin signal pathway in AD and other metabolic diseases. Our aim was to provide a theoretical direction to further elucidate the pathogenesis of AD and highlight the key molecules related to AD that could be important targets used for AD drug development.

577. Association Between Documented Severe Pain and Cognitive Impairment in Home Health Care Patients: Results from the National Outcome and Assessment Information Set Data.
Abstract: Background: Despite the growing importance of home health care (HHC) in the care of older adults with cognitive impairment, limited evidence exists about factors associated with documented severe pain among older adults receiving HHC. Methods: This secondary data analysis used a 5% random national sample of the 2017 national Outcome and Assessment Information Set (OASIS) data. Multivariable Poisson regression model was used to examine the association between documented severe pain, cognitive impairment, and a range of sociodemographic, clinical, and cognitive factors. Results: HHC patients (n = 183,038) were mean age 79.7 years, 61.7% female, and 78.6% non-Hispanic White. In multivariable models, cognitive impairment was associated with lower likelihood of documented severe pain (prevalence ratio [PR] = 0.96, confidence interval [CI] = [0.94-0.98]). Other factors independently associated with less documented severe pain included Hispanic ethnicity (PR = 0.92, CI = [0.89-0.95]), the oldest (≥85 years) groups (PR = 0.65, CI = [0.63-0.66]), male patients (PR = 0.83, CI = [0.82-0.85]), those with a formal diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease Related Dementias (PR = 0.67, CI = [0.65-0.69]), and patients with verbal- and speech-related difficulty (PR = 0.83, CI = [0.80-0.86]). Patients with history of falls (PR = 1.18, CI = [1.16-1.20]), positive screen on the Patient Health Questionnaire-2 (PR = 1.36, CI = [1.31-1.41]), shortness of breath (PR = 1.14, CI = [1.12-1.14]), anxiety daily (PR = 1.16, CI = [1.14-1.18]), and anxiety daily or more often (PR = 1.40, CI = [1.37-1.43]) were more likely to have documented severe pain. Conclusions: HHC patients with cognitive impairment were less likely to have documented severe pain even with a range of sociodemographic, clinical, functional, and cognitive characteristics were considered. These findings may reflect a link between cognitive impairment missed opportunities for clinicians to provide pain management. Tailored interventions are needed to better assess and manage pain in this vulnerable group of HHC patients.

578. Functional characterization of a single nucleotide polymorphism associated with Alzheimer's disease in a hiPSC-based neuron model.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative diseases encompass a group of debilitating conditions resulting from progressive nerve cell death. Of these, Alzheimer's disease (AD) occurs most frequently, but is currently incurable and has limited treatment success. Late onset AD, the most common form, is highly heritable but is caused by a combination of non-genetic risk factors and many low-effect genetic variants whose disease-causing mechanisms remain unclear. By mining the FinnGen study database of phenome-wide association studies, we identified a rare variant, rs148726219, enriched in the Finnish population that is associated with AD risk and dementia, and appears to have arisen on a common haplotype with older AD-associated variants such as rs429358. The rs148726219 variant lies in an overlapping intron of the FosB proto-oncogene (FOSB) and ERCC excision repair 1 (ERCC1) genes. To understand the impact of this SNP on disease phenotypes, we performed CRISPR/Cas9 editing in a human induced pluripotent stem cell (hiPSC) line to generate isogenic clones harboring heterozygous and homozygous alleles of rs148726219. hiPSC clones differentiated into induced excitatory neurons (iNs) did not exhibit detectable molecular or morphological variation in differentiation potential compared to isogenic controls. However, global transcriptome analysis showed differential regulation of nearby genes and upregulation of several biological pathways related to neuronal function, particularly synaptogenesis and calcium signaling, specifically in mature iNs harboring rs148726219 homozygous and heterozygous alleles. Functional differences in iN circuit maturation as measured by calcium imaging were observed across genotypes. Edited mature iNs also displayed downregulation of unfolded protein response and cell death pathways. This study implicates a phenotypic impact of rs148726219 in the context of mature neurons, consistent with its identification in late onset AD, and underscores a hiPSC-based experimental model to functionalize GWAS-identified variants.

579. Oh my gut! Is the microbial origin of neurodegenerative diseases real?
Abstract: There is no cure or effective treatment for neurodegenerative protein conformational diseases (PCDs), such as Alzheimer's or Parkinson's diseases, mainly because the etiology of these diseases remains elusive. Recent data suggest that unique changes in the gut microbial composition are associated with these ailments; however, our current understanding of the bacterial role in the pathogenesis of PCDs is hindered by the complexity of the microbial communities associated with specific microbiomes, such as the gut, oral, or vaginal microbiota. The composition of these specific microbiomes is regarded as a unique fingerprint affected by factors such as infections, diet, lifestyle, and antibiotics. All of these factors also affect the severity of neurodegenerative diseases. The majority of studies that reveal microbial contribution are correlational, and various models, including worm, fly, and mouse, are being utilized to decipher the role of individual microbes that may affect disease onset and progression. Recent evidence from across model organisms and humans shows a positive correlation between the presence of gram-negative enteropathogenic bacteria and the pathogenesis of PCDs. While these correlational studies do not provide a mechanistic explanation, they do reveal contributing bacterial species and provide an important basis for further investigation. One of the lurking concerns related to the microbial contribution to PCDs is the increasing prevalence of antibiotic resistance and poor antibiotic stewardship, which ultimately select for proteotoxic bacteria, especially the gram-negative species that are known for intrinsic resistance. In this review, we summarize what is known about individual microbial contribution to PCDs and the potential impact of increasing antimicrobial resistance.

580. Transfixed by transgenics: how pathology assumptions are slowing progress in Alzheimer's disease and related dementia research.
Abstract: Model organisms of human diseases are invaluable tools for unraveling pathogenic mechanisms, identifying potential targets for drug development, and evaluating the therapeutic efficacy of candidates in preclinical trials. The utility of model organisms hinges upon their ability to faithfully replicate the underlying pathogenic mechanisms of the human disease. For rodent models of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and AD-related dementias (ADRD), the limited translatability to human disease raises concerns about their overall utility. What factors contribute to this limitation? Is AD inherently too complex to be accurately modeled in nonhumans? Is the divergence between rodent brains and the human brain so pronounced that rodents are unsuitable as model organisms for AD? Or is it plausible that the commonly used rodent models don't capture the genuine pathogenic mechanisms underlying these diseases? This editorial discusses the challenges associated with transgenic models of AD and ADRD and offers some alternative approaches.

581. Magneto-assisted enzymatic DNA walkers for simultaneous electrochemical detection of amyloid-beta oligomers and Tau.
Abstract: DNA walkers have been widely explored and applied as biosensor elements to detect disease-related biomarkers. Traditional interface-anchored DNA walkers typically have a fixed swing arm range and an orientation of the preset track, which might complicate the design of a sensor system and limit its application in more scenes. We propose a simple electrochemical aptasensor to accurately detect Alzheimer's disease (AD) based on a nicking enzyme-powered DNA walker. In this method, bifunctional magnetic nanoparticles are used to identify and capture Aβ oligomers (AβO) and Tau and release the DNA walker. As the DNA walker moves freely on the surface of the electrode, the nicking enzymes circularly cleave and release the two signal substrate chains, significantly amplifying the signal. It has been demonstrated that the constructed sensor can sensitively detect AβO and Tau, and the combined analysis of dual markers improves the accuracy of AD diagnosis. Furthermore, this method can distinguish normal individuals from AD patients in real cerebrospinal fluid samples. The excellent performance of this biosensor makes it promising for clinical applications in diagnosing AD patients and prognosis assessment.

582. Presenilin 2 N141I Mutation Induces Hyperimmunity by Immune Cell-specific Suppression of REV-ERBα without Altering Central Circadian Rhythm.
Abstract: Circadian rhythm is a 24-hour cycle of behavioral and physiological changes. Disrupted sleep-wake patterns and circadian dysfunction are common in patients of Alzheimer Disease (AD) and are closely related with neuroinflammation. However, it is not well known how circadian rhythm of immune cells is altered during the progress of AD. Previously, we found presenilin 2 (Psen2) N141I mutation, one of familial AD (FAD) risk genes, induces hyperimmunity through the epigenetic repression of REV-ERBα expression in microglia and bone marrow-derived macrophage (BMDM) cells. Here, we investigated whether repression of REV-ERBα is associated with dysfunction of immune cell-endogenous or central circadian rhythm by analyses of clock genes expression and cytokine secretion, bioluminescence recording of rhythmic PER2::LUC expression, and monitoring of animal behavioral rhythm. Psen2 N141I mutation down-regulated REV-ERBα and induced selective over-production of IL-6 (a well-known clock-dependent cytokine) following the treatment of toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands in microglia, astrocytes, and BMDM. Psen2 N141I mutation also lowered amplitude of intrinsic daily oscillation in these immune cells representatives of brain and periphery. Of interest, however, the period of daily rhythm remained intact in immune cells. Furthermore, analyses of the central clock and animal behavioral rhythms revealed that central clock remained normal without down-regulation of REV-ERBα. These results suggest that Psen2 N141I mutation induces hyperimmunity mainly through the suppression of REV-ERBα in immune cells, which have lowered amplitude but normal period of rhythmic oscillation. Furthermore, our data reveal that central circadian clock is not affected by Psen2 N141I mutation.

583. Single Versus Repetitive Traumatic Brain Injury: Current Knowledge on the Chronic Outcomes, Neuropathology and the Role of TDP-43 Proteinopathy.
Abstract: Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is one of the most important causes of death and disability in adults and thus an important public health problem. Following TBI, secondary pathophysiological processes develop over time and condition the development of different neurodegenerative entities. Previous studies suggest that neurobehavioral changes occurring after a single TBI are the basis for the development of Alzheimer's disease, while repetitive TBI is considered to be a contributing factor for chronic traumatic encephalopathy development. However, pathophysiological processes that determine the evolvement of a particular chronic entity are still unclear. Human post-mortem studies have found combinations of amyloid, tau, Lewi bodies, and TAR DNA-binding protein 43 (TDP-43) pathologies after both single and repetitive TBI. This review focuses on the pathological changes of TDP-43 after single and repetitive brain traumas. Numerous studies have shown that TDP-43 proteinopathy noticeably occurs after repetitive head trauma. A relatively small number of available preclinical research on single brain injury are not in complete agreement with the results from the human samples, which makes it difficult to draw specific conclusions. Also, as TBI is considered a heterogeneous type of injury, different experimental trauma models and injury intensities may cause differences in the cascade of secondary injury, which should be considered in future studies. Experimental and post-mortem studies of TDP-43 pathobiology should be carried out, preferably in the same laboratories, to determine its involvement in the development of neurodegenerative conditions after one and repetitive TBI, especially in the context of the development of new therapeutic options.

584. miR155, TREM2, INPP5D: Disease stage and cell type are essential considerations when targeting clinical interventions based on mouse models of Alzheimer's amyloidopathy.
Abstract: Studies of microglial gene manipulation in mouse models of Alzheimer's disease (AD) amyloidopathy can cause unpredictable effects on various key endpoints, including amyloidosis, inflammation, neuritic dystrophy, neurodegeneration, and learning behavior. In this Correspondence, we discuss three examples, microRNA 155 (miR155), TREM2, and INPP5D, in which observed results have been difficult to reconcile with predicted results based on precedent, because these six key endpoints do not reliably track together. The pathogenesis of AD involves multiple cell types and complex events that may change with disease stage. We propose that cell-type targeting and timing of intervention are responsible for the sometimes impossibility of predicting whether any prospective therapeutic intervention should aim at increasing or decreasing the level or activity of a particular molecular target.

585. High-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (HF-rTMS) on global cognitive function of elderly in mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
Abstract: High-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (HF-rTMS) is a non-invasive brain stimulation technique used to improve cognitive deficits in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). This systematic review and meta-analysis aimed to evaluate the efficacy of HF-rTMS in improving global cognitive function rehabilitation in elderly patients with mild to moderate AD.

586. Induction of proteasomal activity in mammalian cells by lifespan-extending tRNA synthetase inhibitors.
Abstract: We have recently shown that multiple tRNA synthetase inhibitors can greatly increase lifespan in multiple models by acting through the conserved transcription factor ATF4. Here, we show that these compounds, and several others of the same class, can greatly upregulate mammalian ATF4 in cells in vitro, in a dose dependent manner. Further, RNASeq analysis of these cells pointed toward changes in protein turnover. In subsequent experiments here we show that multiple tRNA synthetase inhibitors can greatly upregulate activity of the ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS) in cells in an ATF4-dependent manner. The UPS plays an important role in the turnover of many damaged or dysfunctional proteins in an organism. Increasing UPS activity has been shown to enhance the survival of Huntington's disease cell models, but there are few known pharmacological enhancers of the UPS. Additionally, we see separate ATF4 dependent upregulation of macroautophagy upon treatment with tRNA synthetase inhibitors. Protein degradation is an essential cellular process linked to many important human diseases of aging such as Alzheimer's disease and Huntington's disease. These drugs' ability to enhance proteostasis more broadly could have wide-ranging implications in the treatment of important age-related neurodegenerative diseases.

587. APOE4 impairs the microglial response in Alzheimer's disease by inducing TGFβ-mediated checkpoints.
Abstract: The APOE4 allele is the strongest genetic risk factor for late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD). The contribution of microglial APOE4 to AD pathogenesis is unknown, although APOE has the most enriched gene expression in neurodegenerative microglia (MGnD). Here, we show in mice and humans a negative role of microglial APOE4 in the induction of the MGnD response to neurodegeneration. Deletion of microglial APOE4 restores the MGnD phenotype associated with neuroprotection in P301S tau transgenic mice and decreases pathology in APP/PS1 mice. MGnD-astrocyte cross-talk associated with β-amyloid (Aβ) plaque encapsulation and clearance are mediated via LGALS3 signaling following microglial APOE4 deletion. In the brains of AD donors carrying the APOE4 allele, we found a sex-dependent reciprocal induction of AD risk factors associated with suppression of MGnD genes in females, including LGALS3, compared to individuals homozygous for the APOE3 allele. Mechanistically, APOE4-mediated induction of ITGB8-transforming growth factor-β (TGFβ) signaling impairs the MGnD response via upregulation of microglial homeostatic checkpoints, including Inpp5d, in mice. Deletion of Inpp5d in microglia restores MGnD-astrocyte cross-talk and facilitates plaque clearance in APP/PS1 mice. We identify the microglial APOE4-ITGB8-TGFβ pathway as a negative regulator of microglial response to AD pathology, and restoring the MGnD phenotype via blocking ITGB8-TGFβ signaling provides a promising therapeutic intervention for AD.

588. APOEε4 potentiates amyloid β effects on longitudinal tau pathology.
Abstract: The mechanisms by which the apolipoprotein E ε4 (APOEε4) allele influences the pathophysiological progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are poorly understood. Here we tested the association of APOEε4 carriership and amyloid-β (Aβ) burden with longitudinal tau pathology. We longitudinally assessed 94 individuals across the aging and AD spectrum who underwent clinical assessments, APOE genotyping, magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography (PET) for Aβ ([18F]AZD4694) and tau ([18F]MK-6240) at baseline, as well as a 2-year follow-up tau-PET scan. We found that APOEε4 carriership potentiates Aβ effects on longitudinal tau accumulation over 2 years. The APOEε4-potentiated Aβ effects on tau-PET burden were mediated by longitudinal plasma phosphorylated tau at threonine 217 (p-tau217+) increase. This longitudinal tau accumulation as measured by PET was accompanied by brain atrophy and clinical decline. Our results suggest that the APOEε4 allele plays a key role in Aβ downstream effects on the aggregation of phosphorylated tau in the living human brain.

589. Tau: a biomarker of Huntington's disease.
Abstract: Developing effective treatments for patients with Huntington's disease (HD)-a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by severe cognitive, motor and psychiatric impairments-is proving extremely challenging. While the monogenic nature of this condition enables to identify individuals at risk, robust biomarkers would still be extremely valuable to help diagnose disease onset and progression, and especially to confirm treatment efficacy. If measurements of cerebrospinal fluid neurofilament levels, for example, have demonstrated use in recent clinical trials, other proteins may prove equal, if not greater, relevance as biomarkers. In fact, proteins such as tau could specifically be used to detect/predict cognitive affectations. We have herein reviewed the literature pertaining to the association between tau levels and cognitive states, zooming in on Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and traumatic brain injury in which imaging, cerebrospinal fluid, and blood samples have been interrogated or used to unveil a strong association between tau and cognition. Collectively, these areas of research have accrued compelling evidence to suggest tau-related measurements as both diagnostic and prognostic tools for clinical practice. The abundance of information retrieved in this niche of study has laid the groundwork for further understanding whether tau-related biomarkers may be applied to HD and guide future investigations to better understand and treat this disease.

590. [Recent developments in the modeling and psychological management of persecutory ideation].
Abstract: Persecutory ideas are a major clinical problem and are associated with impaired functioning, reduced compliance with medication and increased risk of hospitalization. Persecutory ideation is defined as the false conviction that others are threatening or conspiring against one. Although persecutory delusions are mainly described and experienced in schizophrenia spectrum disorders, they also occur in other neurological and psychiatric diagnoses including Alzheimer disease, epilepsy, depression, mania, dementia and post-traumatic stress disorder. Moreover, epidemiological data from general and clinical populations indicated that paranoid beliefs occur on a hierarchy of severity and are present to a lesser degree in the general population, with paranoid delusions representing the severe end of a continuum. In this review we focus on the important advances following a decade of research from psychological sciences, and more particularly the work of Daniel Freeman and Philippa Garety in England. Their work has demonstrated that a range of causal factors are involved in the development and maintenance of delusions beyond the traditional cognitive and behavioural models. Indeed, there is now well-validated evidence that sleep disturbances, worry proneness, reasoning biases, such as failure to consider alternative explanations or belief confirmation bias, abnormal experiences such as hallucinations, negative self-beliefs, and safety behaviours, are central factors that contribute to the paranoid phenomenon. In this review, we describe each of these causal factors in detail as well as the clinical interventions developed by Freeman and his collaborators, including the integrative and modular "Feeling Safe" intervention. Broadly speaking, the aim of this psychological intervention is for patients to relearn safety by exposing them to situations they consider as potentially dangerous after reduction of the influence of the maintenance factors described above. A recent publication showed that the Feeling Safe program led to recovery in persecutory delusions for 50% of patients having poor response to antipsychotic medication, making the intervention as the most effective psychological treatment for persecutory delusions. Finally, we will critically discuss the efficacy data from the numerous clinical studies validating its effectiveness. Prospects for the implementation of the Feeling Safe program in France also is discussed.

591. Performance of a [18F]Flortaucipir PET Visual Read Method Across the Alzheimer Disease Continuum and in Dementia With Lewy Bodies.
Abstract: Recently, the US Food and Drug Administration approved the tau-binding radiotracer [18F]flortaucipir and an accompanying visual read method to support the diagnostic process in cognitively impaired patients assessed for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Studies evaluating this visual read method are limited. Here, we evaluated the performance of the visual read method in participants along the AD continuum and dementia with Lewy Bodies (DLB) by determining its reliability, accordance with semi-quantitative analyses and associations with clinically relevant variables.

592. The immunometabolic reprogramming of microglia in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related neurodegenerative disorder (NDD). In the central nervous system (CNS), immune cells like microglia could reprogram intracellular metabolism to alter or exert cellular immune functions in response to environmental stimuli. In AD, microglia could be activated and differentiated into pro-inflammatory or anti-inflammatory phenotypes, and these differences in cellular phenotypes resulted in variance in cellular energy metabolism. Considering the enormous energy requirement of microglia for immune functions, the changes in mitochondria-centered energy metabolism and substrates of microglia are crucial for the cellular regulation of immune responses. Here we reviewed the mechanisms of microglial metabolic reprogramming by analyzing their flexible metabolic patterns and changes that occurred in their metabolism during the development of AD. Further, we summarized the role of drugs in modulating immunometabolic reprogramming to prevent neuroinflammation, which may shed light on a new research direction for AD treatment.

593. Molecularly Imprinted Polymer Interface on Screen-Printed ZnO Nanorod Field Effect Transistors for Serotonin Detection in Clinical Samples.
Abstract: Ultrasensitive detection of serotonin is crucial for the early diagnosis of several diseases like Parkinson's and Alzheimer's. Most of the existing detection strategies are still not suitable for sensitive point-of-care applications. This study presents direct molecular imprinting of serotonin on the surface of three-dimensional zinc oxide (ZnO) nanorod devices connected in a field effect transistor (FET) configuration to achieve ultrasensitive, real-time, and rapid detection with a convenient and affordable approach, which has significant potential for translation to clinical settings. This strategy has enabled pushing the detection limit to 0.1 fM in a physiological analyte in real time with screen-printed electrodes, thereby resulting in the convenient batch fabrication of sensors for clinical validation. The response of the sensor with the clinical sample has been correlated with that of the gold standard and has been observed to be statistically similar.

594. No association between metformin initiation and incident dementia in older adults newly diagnosed with diabetes.
Abstract: Metformin has been suggested to reduce dementia risk; however, most epidemiologic studies have been limited by immortal time bias or confounding due to disease severity.

595. Diet-gut microbiome interaction and ferulic acid bioavailability: implications on neurodegenerative disorders.
Abstract: Ferulic acid (FA), which occurs naturally as the feruloylated sugar ester in grains, fruits, and vegetables, is critical for combating oxidative stress and alleviating neurodegenerative diseases resulting from free radical-generated protein aggregates in brain cells. However, FA cannot be absorbed in conjugated form. Therefore, strategies to improve the bioavailability of FA are gaining more importance. Ferulic acid esterases (FAE) of the gut microbiota are critical enzymes that facilitate FA release from feruloylated sugar ester conjugates and influence systemic health. This review provides insight into a nutrition-based approach to preventing neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's by altering the diversity of FAE-producing gut microbiota.

596. [Analysis of the prevalence of anticoagulant therapy in patients with cognitive disorders and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA)].
Abstract: To investigate the prevalence of coincident anticoagulation in patients with cognitive disorders and possible or probable cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) as well as the relationship between the presence of oral anticoagulation and CAA-specific lesion load.

597. An Overview of the Neurotrophic and Neuroprotective Properties of the Psychoactive Drug Lithium as an Autophagy Modulator in Neurodegenerative Conditions.
Abstract: For both short-term and long-term treatment of bipolar disorder, lithium is a prototypical mood stabilizer. Lithium's neuroprotective properties were revealed by cumulative translational research, which opened the door to reforming the chemical as a treatment for neurodegenerative illnesses. The control of homeostatic systems such as oxidative stress, autophagy, apoptosis, mitochondrial function, and inflammation underlies lithium's neuroprotective characteristics. The fact that lithium inhibits the enzymes inositol monophosphatase (IMPase) and glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3 may be the cause of the various intracellular reactions. In this article, we review lithium's neurobiological properties, as demonstrated by its neurotrophic and neuroprotective capabilities, as well as translational studies in cells in culture and in animal models of Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD), Prion disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), ischemic stroke, and neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCL), discussing the justification for the drug's use in the treatment of these neurodegenerative disorders.

598. Comparative Study of Safety and Efficacy of Angiotensin-Receptor Blockers and Anti Amyloid-ß Monoclonal Antibodies for the Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease: A Systematic Review.
Abstract: Amyloid-ß (Aß) plaques and Neurofibrillary tangles are hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. Recent advances to find a cure for AD have led to the exploration of Anti-Aß monoclonal antibodies and angiotensin-receptor blockers (ARBs). The antibodies can decrease plaque formation or remove already formed plaques. ARBs increase angiotensin II (AT2) levels and decrease the effect of AT2 on the AT1 receptor (AT1R). This systematic analysis reviews evidence of monoclonal antibodies (Aducanumab, Lecanemab, Donanemab, and Solanezumab) and ARBs in managing AD. An in-depth methodical search was conducted across PubMed, Science Direct, and Mendeley. PRISMA 2020 guidelines were followed for this study. Randomized control trials for antibodies and ARBs and one retrospective cohort study were included. The comparison was made among studies that shared similar measured outcomes. Antibodies were found to be more effective than ARBs, with Aducanumab and Lecanemab being the most effective. ARBs, on the other hand, were found to be the safer choice. Further trials of longer duration and larger sample sizes are needed to explore both groups' long-term safety and efficacy.

599. Harnessing acoustic speech parameters to decipher amyloid status in individuals with mild cognitive impairment.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative condition characterized by a gradual decline in cognitive functions. Currently, there are no effective treatments for AD, underscoring the importance of identifying individuals in the preclinical stages of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to enable early interventions. Among the neuropathological events associated with the onset of the disease is the accumulation of amyloid protein in the brain, which correlates with decreased levels of Aβ42 peptide in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Consequently, the development of non-invasive, low-cost, and easy-to-administer proxies for detecting Aβ42 positivity in CSF becomes particularly valuable. A promising approach to achieve this is spontaneous speech analysis, which combined with machine learning (ML) techniques, has proven highly useful in AD. In this study, we examined the relationship between amyloid status in CSF and acoustic features derived from the description of the Cookie Theft picture in MCI patients from a memory clinic. The cohort consisted of fifty-two patients with MCI (mean age 73 years, 65% female, and 57% positive amyloid status). Eighty-eight acoustic parameters were extracted from voice recordings using the extended Geneva Minimalistic Acoustic Parameter Set (eGeMAPS), and several ML models were used to classify the amyloid status. Furthermore, interpretability techniques were employed to examine the influence of input variables on the determination of amyloid-positive status. The best model, based on acoustic variables, achieved an accuracy of 75% with an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.79 in the prediction of amyloid status evaluated by bootstrapping and Leave-One-Out Cross Validation (LOOCV), outperforming conventional neuropsychological tests (AUC = 0.66). Our results showed that the automated analysis of voice recordings derived from spontaneous speech tests offers valuable insights into AD biomarkers during the preclinical stages. These findings introduce novel possibilities for the use of digital biomarkers to identify subjects at high risk of developing AD.

600. Finding Drug Repurposing Candidates for Neurodegenerative Diseases using Zebrafish Behavioral Profiles.
Abstract: Drug repurposing can accelerate drug development while reducing the cost and risk of toxicity typically associated with de novo drug design. Several disorders lacking pharmacological solutions and exhibiting poor results in clinical trials - such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) - could benefit from a cost-effective approach to finding new therapeutics. We previously developed a neural network model, Z-LaP Tracker, capable of quantifying behaviors in zebrafish larvae relevant to cognitive function, including activity, reactivity, swimming patterns, and optomotor response in the presence of visual and acoustic stimuli. Using this model, we performed a high-throughput screening of FDA-approved drugs to identify compounds that affect zebrafish larval behavior in a manner consistent with the distinct behavior induced by calcineurin inhibitors. Cyclosporine (CsA) and other calcineurin inhibitors have garnered interest for their potential role in the prevention of AD. We generated behavioral profiles suitable for cluster analysis, through which we identified 64 candidate therapeutics for neurodegenerative disorders.

601. Global brain activity and its coupling with cerebrospinal fluid flow is related to tau pathology.
Abstract: Amyloid-β (Aβ) and tau deposition constitute Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuropathology. Cortical tau deposits first in the entorhinal cortex and hippocampus and then propagates to neocortex in an Aβ-dependent manner. Tau also tends to accumulate earlier in higher-order association cortex than in lower-order primary sensory-motor cortex. While previous research has examined the production and spread of tau, little attention has been paid to its clearance. Low-frequency (<0.1 Hz) global brain activity during the resting state is coupled with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) flow and potentially reflects glymphatic clearance. Here we report that tau deposition in subjects with evaluated Aβ, accompanied by cortical thinning and cognitive decline, is strongly associated with decreased coupling between CSF flow and global brain activity. Substantial modulation of global brain activity is also manifested as propagating waves of brain activation between higher- and lower-order regions, resembling tau spreading. Together, the findings suggest an important role of resting-state global brain activity in AD tau pathology.

602. Fact Check: Assessing the Response of ChatGPT to Alzheimer's Disease Statements with Varying Degrees of Misinformation.
Abstract: There are many myths regarding Alzheimer's disease (AD) that have been circulated on the Internet, each exhibiting varying degrees of accuracy, inaccuracy, and misinformation. Large language models such as ChatGPT, may be a useful tool to help assess these myths for veracity and inaccuracy. However, they can induce misinformation as well. The objective of this study is to assess ChatGPT's ability to identify and address AD myths with reliable information.

603. Reduced ER-mitochondrial contact sites and mitochondrial Ca2+ flux in PRKN-mutant patient tyrosine hydroxylase reporter iPSC lines.
Abstract: Endoplasmic reticulum-mitochondrial contact sites (ERMCS) play an important role in mitochondrial dynamics, calcium signaling, and autophagy. Disruption of the ERMCS has been linked to several neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). However, the etiological role of ERMCS in these diseases remains unclear. We previously established tyrosine hydroxylase reporter (TH-GFP) iPSC lines from a PD patient with a PRKN mutation to perform correlative light-electron microscopy (CLEM) analysis and live cell imaging in GFP-expressing dopaminergic neurons. Here, we analyzed ERMCS in GFP-expressing PRKN-mutant dopaminergic neurons from patients using CLEM and a proximity ligation assay (PLA). The PLA showed that the ERMCS were significantly reduced in PRKN-mutant patient dopaminergic neurons compared to the control under normal conditions. The reduction of the ERMCS in PRKN-mutant patient dopaminergic neurons was further enhanced by treatment with a mitochondrial uncoupler. In addition, mitochondrial calcium imaging showed that mitochondrial Ca2+ flux was significantly reduced in PRKN-mutant patient dopaminergic neurons compared to the control. These results suggest a defect in calcium flux from ER to mitochondria is due to the decreased ERMCS in PRKN-mutant patient dopaminergic neurons. Our study of ERMCS using TH-GFP iPSC lines would contribute to further understanding of the mechanisms of dopaminergic neuron degeneration in patients with PRKN mutations.

604. Drug repurposing for Alzheimer's disease from 2012-2022-a 10-year literature review.
Abstract: Background: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a debilitating neurodegenerative condition with few treatment options available. Drug repurposing studies have sought to identify existing drugs that could be repositioned to treat AD; however, the effectiveness of drug repurposing for AD remains unclear. This review systematically analyzes the progress made in drug repurposing for AD throughout the last decade, summarizing the suggested drug candidates and analyzing changes in the repurposing strategies used over time. We also examine the different types of data that have been leveraged to validate suggested drug repurposing candidates for AD, which to our knowledge has not been previous investigated, although this information may be especially useful in appraising the potential of suggested drug repurposing candidates. We ultimately hope to gain insight into the suggested drugs representing the most promising repurposing candidates for AD. Methods: We queried the PubMed database for AD drug repurposing studies published between 2012 and 2022. 124 articles were reviewed. We used RxNorm to standardize drug names across the reviewed studies, map drugs to their constituent ingredients, and identify prescribable drugs. We used the Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical (ATC) Classification System to group drugs. Results: 573 unique drugs were proposed for repurposing in AD over the last 10 years. These suggested repurposing candidates included drugs acting on the nervous system (17%), antineoplastic and immunomodulating agents (16%), and drugs acting on the cardiovascular system (12%). Clozapine, a second-generation antipsychotic medication, was the most frequently suggested repurposing candidate (N = 6). 61% (76/124) of the reviewed studies performed a validation, yet only 4% (5/124) used real-world data for validation. Conclusion: A large number of potential drug repurposing candidates for AD has accumulated over the last decade. However, among these drugs, no single drug has emerged as the top candidate, making it difficult to establish research priorities. Validation of drug repurposing hypotheses is inconsistently performed, and real-world data has been critically underutilized for validation. Given the urgent need for new AD therapies, the utility of real-world data in accelerating identification of high-priority candidates for AD repurposing warrants further investigation.

605. Effectiveness and safety of virtual reality rehabilitation after stroke: an overview of systematic reviews.
Abstract: Virtual reality (VR) is an innovative neurorehabilitation modality that has been variously examined in systematic reviews. We assessed VR effectiveness and safety after cerebral stroke.

606. Mechanistic insights into the role of herpes simplex virus 1 in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is an aging-associated neurodegenerative disorder, threatening millions of people worldwide. The onset and progression of AD can be accelerated by environmental risk factors, such as bacterial and viral infections. Human herpesviruses are ubiquitous infectious agents that underpin numerous inflammatory disorders including neurodegenerative diseases. Published studies concerning human herpesviruses in AD imply an active role HSV-1 in the pathogenesis of AD. This review will summarize the current understanding of HSV-1 infection in AD and highlight some barriers to advance this emerging field.

607. Impact of transcranial direct current stimulation on white matter microstructure integrity in mild cognitive impairment patients according to effect modifiers as risk factors for Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Little research exists on how individual risk factors for Alzheimer's disease (AD) affect the intermediate phenotype after transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS), despite the importance of precision medicine-based therapeutic approaches.

608. The intracerebral injection of Aβ1-42 oligomers does not invariably alter seizure susceptibility in mice.
Abstract: Epileptiform activity and seizures are present in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and genetic animal models of AD. Amyloid beta 1-42 (Aβ1-42) oligomers are thought to be crucial in AD and can cause neuronal hyperexcitability in vitro. However, it is unclear whether these Aβ1-42 oligomers cause the increased seizure susceptibility in vivo in people with AD and in AD animal models, nor via which mechanisms it would do so. We investigated this question by injecting Aβ1-42 oligomers intracerebrally in mice and assessed its impact on seizure susceptibility.

609. Disparity of smell tests in Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative disorders: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
Abstract: There are discrepancies of olfactory impairment between Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other neurodegenerative disorders. Olfactory deficits may be a potential marker for early and differential diagnosis of AD. We aimed to assess olfactory functions in patients with AD and other neurodegenerative disorders, to further evaluate the smell tests using subgroup analysis, and to explore moderating factors affecting olfactory performance.

610. Menopausal hormone therapy and risk of dementia: health insurance database in South Korea-based retrospective cohort study.
Abstract: Menopausal hormone therapy (MHT) is used to alleviate the symptoms associated with menopause, despite the lack of recommendations for MHT in preventing dementia. Recent nationwide studies have explored the association between MHT and dementia risk, but the findings remain limited. This study aims to investigate the association between MHT and the incidence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and non-AD dementia using national population data from Korea.

611. The (in)visible Brazilians: A perspective review on the need for brain health and dementia research with Brazilian immigrants in the United States.
Abstract: The Brazilian population in the United States (U.S.), a Latinx subgroup, is rapidly growing and aging but remains underrepresented in U.S. health research. In addition to group-specific genetic and environmental risks, Brazilian immigrants and their offspring in the U.S. likely have cumulative risks for health inequities.It is estimated that 71% of Brazilian immigrants in the U.S. are undocumented, which may limit healthcare access/utilization. Furthermore, mental health is reported as a health priority by Brazilian immigrants in the U.S., and there is a lack of research on Alzheimer's disease and related dementia (AD/ADRD) in this population.

612. The dual face of microglia (M1/M2) as a potential target in the protective effect of nutraceuticals against neurodegenerative diseases.
Abstract: The pathophysiology of different neurodegenerative illnesses is significantly influenced by the polarization regulation of microglia and macrophages. Traditional classifications of macrophage phenotypes include the pro-inflammatory M1 and the anti-inflammatory M2 phenotypes. Numerous studies demonstrated dynamic non-coding RNA modifications, which are catalyzed by microglia-induced neuroinflammation. Different nutraceuticals focus on the polarization of M1/M2 phenotypes of microglia and macrophages, offering a potent defense against neurodegeneration. Caeminaxin A, curcumin, aromatic-turmerone, myricetin, aurantiamide, 3,6'-disinapoylsucrose, and resveratrol reduced M1 microglial inflammatory markers while increased M2 indicators in Alzheimer's disease. Amyloid beta-induced microglial M1 activation was suppressed by andrographolide, sulforaphane, triptolide, xanthoceraside, piperlongumine, and novel plant extracts which also prevented microglia-mediated necroptosis and apoptosis. Asarone, galangin, baicalein, and a-mangostin reduced oxidative stress and pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin (IL)-1, IL-6, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha in M1-activated microglia in Parkinson's disease. Additionally, myrcene, icariin, and tenuigenin prevented the nod-like receptor family pyrin domain-containing 3 inflammasome and microglial neurotoxicity, while a-cyperone, citronellol, nobiletin, and taurine prevented NADPH oxidase 2 and nuclear factor kappa B activation. Furthermore, other nutraceuticals like plantamajoside, swertiamarin, urolithin A, kurarinone, Daphne genkwa flower, and Boswellia serrata extracts showed promising neuroprotection in treating Parkinson's disease. In Huntington's disease, elderberry, curcumin, iresine celosia, Schisandra chinensis, gintonin, and pomiferin showed promising results against microglial activation and improved patient symptoms. Meanwhile, linolenic acid, resveratrol, Huperzia serrata, icariin, and baicalein protected against activated macrophages and microglia in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis and multiple sclerosis. Additionally, emodin, esters of gallic and rosmarinic acids, Agathisflavone, and sinomenine offered promising multiple sclerosis treatments. This review highlights the therapeutic potential of using nutraceuticals to treat neurodegenerative diseases involving microglial-related pathways.

613. Unveiling Neuroprotective Potential of Spice Plant-Derived Compounds against Alzheimer's Disease: Insights from Computational Studies.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a serious threat to the global health care system and is brought on by a series of factors that cause neuronal dysfunction and impairment in memory and cognitive decline. This study investigated the therapeutic potential of phytochemicals that belong to the ten regularly used spice plants, based on their binding affinity with AD-associated proteins. Comprehensive docking studies were performed using AutoDock Vina in PyRx followed by molecular dynamic (MD) simulations using AMBER 14. The docking study of the chosen molecules revealed the binding energies of their interactions with the target proteins, while MD simulations were carried out to verify the steadiness of bound complexes. Through the Lipinski filter and admetSAR analysis, the chosen compounds' pharmacokinetic characteristics and drug likeness were also examined. The pharmacophore mapping study was also done and analyzed for best selected molecules. Additionally, principal component analysis (PCA) was used to examine how the general motion of the protein changed. The results showed quercetin and myricetin to be potential inhibitors of AChE and alpha-amyrin and beta-chlorogenin to be potential inhibitors of BuChE, exhibiting best binding energies comparable to those of donepezil, used as a positive control. The multiple descriptors from the simulation study, root mean square deviation (RMSD), root mean square fluctuation (RMSF), hydrogen bond, radius of gyration (Rg), and solvent-accessible surface areas (SASA), confirm the stable nature of the protein-ligand complexes. Molecular mechanic Poisson-Boltzmann surface area (MM-PBSA) binding free energy calculations indicated the energetically favorable binding of the ligands to the protein. Finally, according to pharmacokinetic properties and drug likeness, characteristics showed that quercetin and myricetin for AChE and alpha-amyrin and beta-chlorogenin for BuChE were found to be the most effective agents for treating the AD.

614. Reliability and validity of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment's auditory items (MoCA-22).
Abstract: Objective: To evaluate the latent structure, internal consistency, convergent and discriminant validity, diagnostic accuracy, and criterion validity of the Montreal Cognitive Assessment's auditory items (MoCA-22), which has previously been evaluated in small samples if at all. Methods: 11,284 participants completed the MoCA over 1-2 visits to an Alzheimer Disease Research Center (Mage = 69.2, Meducation = 15.9, 57.6% women, 92.4% non-Hispanic white). MoCA-22 items were probed with alpha, omega, confirmatory factor analysis, and test-retest correlations. Scores were related to measures of neurocognition, daily functioning, behavioral-psychological symptoms (BPS), and vision performance for convergent-discriminant and criterion validity. Dementia stage was used to calculate area under the receiver operating characteristic (AUC-ROC) curves and cutoffs for mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and dementia. Results: A single-factor had good fit (CFI = .961; TLI = .945; RMSEA = .061; SRMR = .031), with good internal consistency (Omega total = .83) and test-retest consistency (ICC = .92 at 2.7 years). The strongest convergent correlations were with general cognition and executive functioning, while discriminant validity was demonstrated with its weakest and negative correlations being with BPS. There was strong classification accuracy in distinguishing MCI from normal cognition (AUC = .79; optimal cutoff point < 18), and mild-to-moderate dementia from MCI (AUC = .85; optimal cutoff point < 13). Furthermore, the MoCA-22 had negligible-to-small differences among those with and without vision limitations. Conclusions: These findings add to the evidence of the MoCA-22's utility and it serves as a useful cognitive screening tool with sound reliability and validity.

615. Palliative care for persons with late-stage Alzheimer's and related dementias and their caregivers: protocol for a randomized clinical trial.
Abstract: Limited access to specialized palliative care exposes persons with late-stage Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD) to burdensome treatment and unnecessary hospitalization and their caregivers to avoidable strain and financial burden. Addressing this unmet need, the purpose of this study was to conduct a randomized clinical trial (RCT) of the ADRD-Palliative Care (ADRD-PC) program.

616. Sex difference in brain functional connectivity of hippocampus in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD), affecting nearly 6.5 million people, is the fifth leading cause of death in individuals 65 years or older in the USA. Prior research has shown that AD disproportionality affects females; females have a greater incidence rate, perform worse on a variety of neuropsychological tasks, and have greater total brain atrophy. Recent research has linked these sex differences to neuroimaging markers of brain pathology, such as hippocampal volumes. Specifically, research from our lab found that functional connectivity from the hippocampus to the precuneus cortex and brain stem was significantly stronger in males than in females with mild cognitive impairment. The aim of this study was to extend our understanding to individuals with AD and to determine if these potential sex-specific functional connectivity biomarkers extend through different disease stages. The resting state fMRI and T2 MRI of cognitively normal individuals (n = 32, female = 16) and individuals with AD (n = 32, female = 16) from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) were analyzed using the Functional Connectivity Toolbox (CONN). Our results demonstrate that males had a significantly stronger interhemispheric functional connectivity between the left and right hippocampus compared to females. These results improve our current understanding of the role of the hippocampus in sex differences in AD. Understanding the contribution of impaired functional connectivity sex differences may aid in the development of sex-specific precision medicine for improved AD treatment.

617. Erratum to: The Time for Combination Therapy Research in Alzheimer's Disease is Now.
Abstract: Abstract not available for PMID: 37742672

618. Advanced Alzheimer's Disease Patients Show Safe, Significant, and Persistent Benefit in 6-Month Bryostatin Trial.
Abstract: In pre-clinical studies, Bryostatin, MW (molecular weight) 904, has demonstrated synaptogenic, anti-apoptotic, anti-amyloid, and anti-tau tangle efficacies.

619. Exploring the Association Between Opioid Use Disorder and Alzheimer's Disease and Dementia Among a National Sample of the U.S. Population.
Abstract: Past research suggests associations between heavy alcohol use and later life dementia. However, little is known about whether opioid use disorder (OUD) and dementia share this association, especially among age groups younger than 65 years old.

620. Re-Addressing Dementia by Network Medicine and Mechanism-Based Molecular Endotypes.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other forms of dementia are together a leading cause of disability and death in the aging global population, imposing a high personal, societal, and economic burden. They are also among the most prominent examples of failed drug developments. Indeed, after more than 40 AD trials of anti-amyloid interventions, reduction of amyloid-β (Aβ) has never translated into clinically relevant benefits, and in several cases yielded harm. The fundamental problem is the century-old, brain-centric phenotype-based definitions of diseases that ignore causal mechanisms and comorbidities. In this hypothesis article, we discuss how such current outdated nosology of dementia is a key roadblock to precision medicine and articulate how Network Medicine enables the substitution of clinicopathologic phenotypes with molecular endotypes and propose a new framework to achieve precision and curative medicine for patients with neurodegenerative disorders.

621. Criterion Validation of Tau PET Staging Schemes in Relation to Cognitive Outcomes.
Abstract: Utilization of NIA-AA Research Framework requires dichotomization of tau pathology. However, due to the novelty of tau-PET imaging, there is no consensus on methods to categorize scans into "positive" or "negative" (T+ or T-). In response, some tau topographical pathologic staging schemes have been developed.

622. Multimodal Machine Learning for 10-Year Dementia Risk Prediction: The Framingham Heart Study.
Abstract: Early prediction of dementia risk is crucial for effective interventions. Given the known etiologic heterogeneity, machine learning methods leveraging multimodal data, such as clinical manifestations, neuroimaging biomarkers, and well-documented risk factors, could predict dementia more accurately than single modal data.

623. rs56405341 Variant Associates with Expression of C4orf33 and C4orf33 Was Downregulated in Alzheimer's Disease and Progressive Supranuclear Palsy.
Abstract: The first primary age-related tauopathy (PART) genome-wide association study confirmed significant associations of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) genetic variants with PART, and highlighted a novel genetic variant rs56405341. Here, we perform a comprehensive analysis of rs56405341. We found that rs56405341 was significantly associated with C4orf33 mRNA expression, but not JADE1 mRNA expression in multiple brain tissues. C4orf33 was mainly expressed in cerebellar hemisphere and cerebellum, and JADE1 was mainly expressed in thyroid, and coronary artery. Meanwhile, we found significantly downregulated C4orf33 expression both AD and PSP compared with normal controls, respectively.

624. Increased Heat Pain Tolerance but Hyperalgesia to Tonic Inflammatory Pain in the CRND8 Mouse Model of Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: The effects of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology on the experience of pain are poorly understood.

625. Excessive Sedentary Time Is Associated with Cognitive Decline in Older Patients with Minor Ischemic Stroke.
Abstract: Cognitive impairment is commonly seen after acute ischemic stroke (AIS). Sedentary behaviors increase the risk of dementia among community dwelling population.

626. Metacognition in Community-Dwelling Older Black and African American Adults During the COVID-19 Pandemic.
Abstract: Cognitive assessment of older adults typically includes symptom reports and objective evaluations. However, there is often poor agreement between these measures. Cultural norms, stress, and anxiety may also influence cognitive self-appraisal and performance. Little research describes how other factors affect the self-report/objective test discrepancies noted in the literature.

627. Associations Between Amyloid Burden, Hypoxemia, Sleep Architecture, and Cognition in Obstructive Sleep Apnea.
Abstract: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is associated with an increased risk of amyloid-β (Aβ) burden, the hallmark of Alzheimer's disease, and cognitive decline.

628. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor use, age-related neuropathology and cognition in late-life.
Abstract: The objective of this study was to evaluate an association of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) use with late life cognitive decline and further investigate the association with brain pathology. Using the data are from two harmonized clinical-pathologic cohort studies with annual cognitive testing we found that SSRI use was associated with significantly faster global cognitive decline and this association was present in those with and without pre-existing cognitive impairment at the time of SSRI initiation. In separate analyses of persons who died during the study and underwent neuropathologic examination, SSRI use was related to higher level of paired helical filament tau tangles and faster rate of global cognitive decline. However, when SSRI use and tangles were included in the same model, the association of SSRI use with rate of global cognitive decline was reduced by more than 50% and no longer statistically significant. SSRI use was associated with higher postmortem level of tau tangles, possibly because SSRI are being used to treat neurobehavioral symptoms associated with dementia, and this relationship appears to partly account for the association of SSRI use with more rapid cognitive decline.

629. Serum sirtuin1: a potential blood biomarker for early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Sirtuin 1, a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-dependent deacetylase that is highly expressed in the hippocampus and anterior cortex tissues related to Alzheimer's Disease pathology, can cross the blood-brain barrier and is a promising biomarker.

630. Founder population-specific weights yield improvements in performance of polygenic risk scores for Alzheimer's disease in the Midwestern Amish.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common type of dementia and is estimated to affect six million Americans. Risk for AD is multifactorial, including both genetic and environmental risk factors. AD genomic research has generally focused on identification of risk variants. Using this information, polygenic risk scores (PRSs) can be calculated to quantify an individual's relative disease risk due to genetic factors. The Amish are a founder population descended from German and Swiss Anabaptist immigrants. They experienced a genetic bottleneck after arrival in the United States, making their genetic architecture different from the broader European ancestry population. Prior work has demonstrated the lack of transferability of PRSs across populations. Here, we compared the performance of PRSs derived from genome-wide association studies (GWASs) of Amish individuals to those derived from a large European ancestry GWAS. Participants were screened for cognitive impairment with further evaluation for AD. Genotype data were imputed after collection via Illumina genotyping arrays. The Amish individuals were split into two groups based on the primary site of recruitment. For each group, GWAS was conducted with account for relatedness and adjustment for covariates. PRSs were then calculated using weights from the other Amish group. PRS models were evaluated with and without covariates. The Amish-derived PRSs distinguished between dementia status better than the European-derived PRS in our Amish populations and demonstrated performance improvements despite a smaller training sample size. This work highlighted considerations for AD PRS usage in populations that cannot be adequately described by basic race/ethnicity or ancestry classifications.

631. Effects of computerized cognitive training on structure‒function coupling and topology of multiple brain networks in people with mild cognitive impairment: a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: People with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) experience a loss of cognitive functions, whose mechanism is characterized by aberrant structure‒function (SC-FC) coupling and topological attributes of multiple networks. This study aimed to reveal the network-level SC-FC coupling and internal topological changes triggered by computerized cognitive training (CCT) to explain the therapeutic effects of this training in individuals with MCI.

632. Remote evaluation of sleep to enhance understanding of early dementia due to Alzheimer's Disease (RESTED-AD): an observational cohort study protocol.
Abstract: Sleep and circadian rhythm disorders are well recognised in both AD (Alzheimer's Disease) dementia and MCI-AD (Mild Cognitive Impairment due to Alzheimer's Disease). Such abnormalities include insomnia, excessive daytime sleepiness, decreased sleep efficiency, increased sleep fragmentation and sundowning. Enhancing understanding of sleep abnormalities may unveil targets for intervention in sleep, a promising approach given hypotheses that sleep disorders may exacerbate AD pathological progression and represent a contributory factor toward impaired cognitive performance and worse quality of life. This may also permit early diagnosis of AD pathology, widely acknowledged as a pre-requisite for future disease-modifying therapies. This study aims to bridge the divide between in-laboratory polysomnographic studies which allow for rich characterisation of sleep but in an unnatural setting, and naturalistic studies typically approximating sleep through use of non-EEG wearable devices. It is also designed to record sleep patterns over a 2 month duration sufficient to capture both infradian rhythm and compensatory responses following suboptimal sleep. Finally, it harnesses an extensively phenotyped population including with AD blood biomarkers. Its principal aims are to improve characterisation of sleep and biological rhythms in individuals with AD, particularly focusing on micro-architectural measures of sleep, compensatory responses to suboptimal sleep and the relationship between sleep parameters, biological rhythms and cognitive performance.

633. Identifying and Diagnosing TDP-43 Neurodegenerative Diseases in Psychiatry.
Abstract: Neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) are common manifestations of neurodegenerative disorders and are often early signs of those diseases. Among those neurodegenerative diseases, TDP-43 proteinopathies are an increasingly recognized cause of early neuropsychiatric manifestations. TDP-43-related diseases include frontotemporal dementia (FTD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), and Limbic-Predominant Age-Related TDP-43 Encephalopathy (LATE). The majority of TDP-43-related diseases are sporadic, but a significant proportion is hereditary, with progranulin (GRN) mutations and C9orf72 repeat expansions as the most common genetic etiologies. Studies reveal that NPS can be the initial manifestation of those diseases or can complicate disease course, but there is a lack of awareness among clinicians about TDP-43-related diseases, which leads to common diagnostic mistakes or delays. There is also emerging evidence that TDP-43 accumulations could play a role in late-onset primary psychiatric disorders. In the absence of robust biomarkers for TDP-43, the diagnosis remains primarily based on clinical assessment and neuroimaging. Given the association with psychiatric symptoms, clinical psychiatrists have a key role in the early identification of patients with TDP-43-related diseases. This narrative review provides a comprehensive overview of the pathobiology of TDP-43, resulting clinical presentations, and associated neuropsychiatric manifestations to help guide clinical practice.

634. A2AR antagonist treatment for multiple sclerosis: Current progress and future prospects.
Abstract: Emerging evidence suggests that both selective and non-selective Adenosine A2A receptor (A2AR) antagonists could effectively protect mice from experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), which is the most commonly used animal model for multiple sclerosis (MS) research. Meanwhile, the recent FDA approval of Nourianz® (istradefylline) in 2019 as an add-on treatment to levodopa in Parkinson's disease (PD) with "OFF" episodes, along with its proven clinical safety, has prompted us to explore the potential of A2AR antagonists in treating multiple sclerosis (MS) through clinical trials. However, despite promising findings in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), the complex and contradictory role of A2AR signaling in EAE pathology has raised concerns about the feasibility of using A2AR antagonists as a therapeutic approach for MS. This review addresses the potential effect of A2AR antagonists on EAE/MS in both the peripheral immune system (PIS) and the central nervous system (CNS). In brief, A2AR antagonists had a moderate effect on the proliferation and inflammatory response, while exhibiting a potent anti-inflammatory effect in the CNS through their impact on microglia, astrocytes, and the endothelial cells/epithelium of the blood-brain barrier. Consequently, A2AR signaling remains an essential immunomodulator in EAE/MS, suggesting that A2AR antagonists hold promise as a drug class for treating MS.

635. Effects of adenosine A2A receptors on cognitive function in health and disease.
Abstract: Adenosine A2A receptors have been studied extensively in the context of motor function and movement disorders such as Parkinson's disease. In addition to these roles, A2A receptors have also been increasingly implicated in cognitive function and cognitive impairments in diverse conditions, including Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, acute brain injury, and stress. We review the roles of A2A receptors in cognitive processes in health and disease, focusing primarily on the effects of reducing or enhancing A2A expression levels or activities in animal models. Studies reveal that A2A receptors in neurons and astrocytes modulate multiple aspects of cognitive function, including memory and motivation. Converging evidence also indicates that A2A receptor levels and activities are aberrantly increased in aging, acute brain injury, and chronic disorders, and these increases contribute to neurocognitive impairments. Therapeutically targeting A2A receptors with selective modulators may alleviate cognitive deficits in diverse neurological and neuropsychiatric conditions. Further research on the exact neural mechanisms of these effects as well as the efficacy of selective A2A modulators on cognitive alterations in humans are important areas for future investigation.

636. A2A adenosine receptor agonists, antagonists, inverse agonists and partial agonists.
Abstract: The Gs-coupled A2A adenosine receptor (A2AAR) has been explored extensively as a pharmaceutical target, which has led to numerous clinical trials. However, only one selective A2AAR agonist (regadenoson, Lexiscan) and one selective A2AAR antagonist (istradefylline, Nouriast) have been approved by the FDA, as a pharmacological agent for myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI) and as a cotherapy for Parkinson's disease (PD), respectively. Adenosine is widely used in MPI, as Adenoscan. Despite numerous unsuccessful clinical trials, medicinal chemical activity around A2AAR ligands has accelerated recently, particularly through structure-based drug design. New drug-like A2AAR antagonists for PD and cancer immunotherapy have been identified, and many clinical trials have ensued. For example, imaradenant (AZD4635), a compound that was designed computationally, based on A2AAR X-ray structures and biophysical mapping. Mixed A2AAR/A2BAR antagonists are also hopeful for cancer treatment. A2AAR antagonists may also have potential as neuroprotective agents for treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

637. Association between PROMIS10, SF-36 and NeuroQoL in persons with multiple sclerosis.
Abstract: Patient reported outcome measures (PROs) are considered promising tools for use in clinical settings to measure the impact of disease on physical, mental and social well-being from the patient's perspective. The Patient Reported Outcome Measurement Information System Scale v1.1-Global Health (PROMIS-10) is a measure that is well-suited to clinical practice, but the relationships between this measure and longer PRO measures used in multiple sclerosis (MS) research are unknown.

638. ATN cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers in dementia with Lewy bodies: Initial results from the United States Dementia with Lewy Bodies Consortium.
Abstract: The National Institute on Aging - Alzheimer's Association (NIA-AA) ATN research framework proposes to use biomarkers for amyloid (A), tau (T), and neurodegeneration (N) to stage individuals with AD pathological features and track changes longitudinally. The overall aim was to utilize this framework to characterize pre-mortem ATN status longitudinally in a clinically diagnosed cohort of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and to correlate it with the post mortem diagnosis.

639. Investigation of sex differences in mutation carriers of the Dominantly Inherited Alzheimer Network.
Abstract: Studies suggest distinct differences in the development, presentation, progression, and response to treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD) between females and males. We investigated sex differences in cognition, neuroimaging, and fluid biomarkers in dominantly inherited AD (DIAD).

640. Investigating predictors of progression from mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's disease based on different time intervals.
Abstract: Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is the early stage of AD, and about 10-12% of MCI patients will progress to AD every year. At present, there are no effective markers for the early diagnosis of whether MCI patients will progress to AD. This study aimed to develop machine learning-based models for predicting the progression from MCI to AD within 3 years, to assist in screening and prevention of high-risk populations.

641. Detecting value(s): Digital biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease and the valuation of new diagnostic technologies.
Abstract: This article explores how the meanings and values of diagnosis are being reconfigured at the interface between technological innovation and imaginaries of precision medicine. From genome sequencing to biological and digital 'markers' of disease, technological innovation occupies an increasingly central space in the way we imagine future health and illness. These imaginaries are usually centred on the promise of faster, more precise and personalised diagnosis, and the associated hope that if detected early enough disease can be effectively treated and prevented. Underpinning and reproduced through these narratives of the future is a re-conceptualisation of diagnostic processes and categories around the anticipation of future risk, as noted by recent theoretical developments in the sociology of diagnosis and related disciplines. Adding to this literature, in this article we explore what makes these emerging diagnostic arrangements valuable, to whom and how. Drawing on interviews with experts involved in the development of digital biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease, we trace how multiple and at times conflicting applications of the tools, and the value(s) attached to them, are coproduced. We thus ask what possibilities are pursued, or foreclosed, through the work of imagining the future of diagnosis.

642. Head-to-head comparison between plasma p-tau217 and flortaucipir-PET in amyloid-positive patients with cognitive impairment.
Abstract: Plasma phosphorylated tau (p-tau) has emerged as a promising biomarker for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Studies have reported strong associations between p-tau and tau-PET that are mainly driven by differences between amyloid-positive and amyloid-negative patients. However, the relationship between p-tau and tau-PET is less characterized within cognitively impaired patients with a biomarker-supported diagnosis of AD. We conducted a head-to-head comparison between plasma p-tau217 and tau-PET in patients at the clinical stage of AD and further assessed their relationships with demographic, clinical, and biomarker variables.

643. Altered ubiquitin signaling induces Alzheimer's disease-like hallmarks in a three-dimensional human neural cell culture model.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by toxic protein accumulation in the brain. Ubiquitination is essential for protein clearance in cells, making altered ubiquitin signaling crucial in AD development. A defective variant, ubiquitin B + 1 (UBB+1), created by a non-hereditary RNA frameshift mutation, is found in all AD patient brains post-mortem. We now detect UBB+1 in human brains during early AD stages. Our study employs a 3D neural culture platform derived from human neural progenitors, demonstrating that UBB+1 alone induces extracellular amyloid-β (Aβ) deposits and insoluble hyperphosphorylated tau aggregates. UBB+1 competes with ubiquitin for binding to the deubiquitinating enzyme UCHL1, leading to elevated levels of amyloid precursor protein (APP), secreted Aβ peptides, and Aβ build-up. Crucially, silencing UBB+1 expression impedes the emergence of AD hallmarks in this model system. Our findings highlight the significance of ubiquitin signalling as a variable contributing to AD pathology and present a nonclinical platform for testing potential therapeutics.

644. Pyrimidine-morpholine hybrids as potent druggable therapeutics for Alzheimer's disease: Synthesis, biochemical and in silico analyses.
Abstract: The identification of effective and druggable cholinesterase inhibitors to treat progressive neurodegenerative Alzheimer's disorder remains a continuous drug discovery hunt. In this perspective, the present study investigates the design and discovery of pyrimidine-morpholine hybrids (5a-l) as potent cholinesterase inhibitors. Palladium-catalyzed Suzuki-Miyaura cross-coupling reaction was employed to introduce the structural diversity on the pyrimidine heterocyclic core. A range of commercially available boronic acids was successfully coupled showing a high functional group tolerance. In vitro cholinesterase inhibitory potential using Ellman's method revealed significantly strong potency. Compound 5h bearing a meta-tolyl substituent at 2-position of pyrimidine ring emerged as a lead candidate against AChE with an inhibitory potency of 0.43 ± 0.42 µM, ∼38-fold stronger value than neostigmine (IC50 = 16.3 ± 1.12 µM). Compound 5h also showed the lead inhibition against BuChE with an IC50 value of 2.5 ± 0.04 µM. The kinetics analysis of 5h revealed the non-competitive mode of inhibition against AChE whereas computational modelling results of potent leads depicted diverse contacts with the binding site amino acid residues. Molecular dynamics simulations revealed the stability of biomolecular system, while, ADME analysis demonstrated druglikeness behaviour of potent compounds. Overall, the investigated pyrimidine-morpholine scaffold presented a remarkable potential to be developed as efficacious anti-Alzheimer's drugs.

645. The Triple Alliance: Microbiome, Mitochondria, and Metabolites in the Context of Age-Related Cognitive Decline and Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive, age-related neurodegenerative disorder that affects a large proportion of the elderly population. It currently lacks effective treatments, placing a heavy burden on patients, families, healthcare systems, and society. This is mainly due to our limited comprehension of the pathophysiology of AD progression, as well as the lack of effective drug targets and intervention timing to address the underlying pathology. AD is a multifactorial condition, and emerging evidence suggests that abnormalities in the gut microbiota play a significant role as environmental and multifaceted contributors to AD, although the exact mechanisms are yet to be fully explored. Changes in the composition of microbiota influence host neuronal health through their metabolites. These metabolites regulate intestinal epithelia, blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability and neuroinflammation by impacting mitochondrial function. The decline in the proportion of beneficial microbes and their essential metabolites during aging and AD is directly linked to poor mitochondrial function, although the specific mechanisms remain unclear. In this review, we discuss recent developments in understanding the impact of the microbiome and its metabolites on various cell types, their influence on the integrity of the gut and BBB barriers, systemic and brain inflammation, and cell-specific effects in AD pathology. This information is expected to pave the way for a new understanding of the interactions between microbiota and mitochondria in AD, providing a foundation for the development of novel treatments for AD.

646. Caloric restriction intervention alters specific circulating biomarkers of the senescence-associated secretome in middle-aged and older adults with obesity and prediabetes in an 18-week randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: Cellular senescence is a biological aging process that is exacerbated by obesity and leads to inflammation and age- and obesogenic-driven chronic diseases including type 2 diabetes. Caloric restriction (CR) may improve metabolic function in part by reducing cellular senescence and the pro-inflammatory senescence-associated phenotype (SASP). We conducted an ancillary investigation of an 18-week randomized controlled trial (RCT) of CR (n=31) or Control (n=27) in 58 middle-aged/older adults (57.6±5.8 years; 75% Women) with obesity and prediabetes. We measured mRNA expression of select senescence and apoptosis genes in blood CD3+ T-cells (qRT-PCR) and a panel of 25 plasma SASP proteins (Luminex/multiplex; ELISA). Participants randomized to CR lost -10.8±0.9 kg (-11.3±5.4%) over 18-weeks compared with +0.5±0.9 kg (+0.03±3.5%) in Control group. T-cell expression of senescence-biomarkers p16 INK4a and p21 CIP1/WAF1, and apoptosis markers BCL2L1 and BAK1 was not different between CR and Control groups in age, race, and sex adjusted mixed models (p>0.05, all). Iterative principal axis factor analysis was used to develop composite SASP Factors, and the Factor comprised of TNFRI, TNFRII, uPAR, MMP1, GDF15, OPN, Fas, and MPO was significantly altered with CR intervention (age, sex, race adjusted mixed model time × treatment F = 4.17, p≤0.05) and associated with degree of weight loss (R 2 =0.12, p≤0.05). Our study provides evidence from an RCT that specific circulating biomarkers of senescent cell burden are changed by CR in middle-aged and older adults with obesity and prediabetes. Future studies compare tissue and circulating levels of p16 INK4a and pro-inflammatory SASP biomarkers in other populations, and interventions.

647. Emodin derivatives as promising multi-aspect intervention agents for amyloid aggregation: molecular docking/dynamics simulation, bioactivities evaluation, and cytoprotection.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease with complex pathogenesis. Despite the pathogenesis is unknown, the misfolding and accumulation of β-amyloid (Aβ) peptide play the important role in the occurrence and development of AD. Hence, multi-aspect intervention of the misfolded Aβ peptides aggregation is a promising therapy for AD. In previous work, we obtained the emodin derivatives (a-d) with multifunctional anti-AD activities, including metal ions chelation, cholinesterase inhibition, and hydroxyl/superoxide anion radical elimination. In this work, we predicted the interaction of emodin derivatives (a-d) with Aβ by combining molecular docking simulation and molecular dynamics simulation, and evaluated the ability to intervene with the self-, Cu2+- and AChE-induced Aβ aggregation via in vitro methods. The results indicated that a-d could act as the potent multi-aspect intervention agents for Aβ aggregation. In addition, a-d could effectively eliminate peroxyl radical, had virtually no neurotoxicity, and protect cells from oxidative and Aβ-induced damage. The prediction results of ADMET properties showed that a-d had suitable pharmacokinetic characteristics. It suggested that a-d could act as the promising multi-targeted directed ligands (MTDLs) for AD. These results may provide meaningful information for the development of the potential MTDLs for AD which are modified from natural-origin scaffolds.

648. T cell exhaustion is associated with cognitive status and amyloid accumulation in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Studies over the last 100 years have suggested a link between inflammation, infectious disease, and Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Understanding how the immune system changes during the development of AD may facilitate new treatments. Here, we studied an aging cohort who had been assessed for AD pathology with amyloid positron emission tomography and cognitive testing, and conducted high dimensional flow cytometry on peripheral blood mononuclear and cerebrospinal fluid cells. Participants were assigned a classification of being amyloid negative cognitively normal, amyloid positive cognitively normal (APCN), or amyloid positive mild cognitive impairment (APMCI), an early stage of AD. We observed major alterations in the peripheral innate immune system including increased myeloid and plasmacytoid dendritic cells in the blood of APMCI participants. When the adaptive immune system was examined, amyloid positive participants, regardless of cognitive status, had increased CD3+ T cells. Further analyses of CD4+ and CD8+ T cells revealed that APMCI participants had an increase in more differentiated phenotype T cells, such as effector memory and effector memory CD45RA expressing (TEMRA), compared to those with normal cognition. When T cell function was measured, we observed that T cells from APCN participants had increased IFNγ+GzB- producing cells compared to the other participants. In contrast, we demonstrate that APMCI participants had a major increase in T cells that lacked cytokine production following restimulation and expressed increased levels of PD-1 and Tox, suggesting these are exhausted cells. Rejuvenation of these cells may provide a potential treatment for AD.

649. Melatonin regulates the circadian rhythm to ameliorate postoperative sleep disorder and neurobehavioral abnormalities in aged mice.
Abstract: Postoperative sleep disorder (PSD) and delirium, which may be associated with surgery and inhalational anesthetics, induce adverse effects in old adults. Emerging evidence indicates that circadian rhythm contributes to various neuropathological diseases, including Alzheimer's disease. Thus, we analyzed the potential role of circadian rhythm in PSD and delirium-like behavior in aged mice and determined whether exogenous melatonin could facilitate entrainment of the circadian rhythm after laparotomy under sevoflurane anesthesia.

650. Identification of key lipid metabolism-related genes in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) represents profound degenerative conditions of the brain that cause significant deterioration in memory and cognitive function. Despite extensive research on the significant contribution of lipid metabolism to AD progression, the precise mechanisms remain incompletely understood. Hence, this study aimed to identify key differentially expressed lipid metabolism-related genes (DELMRGs) in AD progression.

651. Pharmacological effects of Safranal: An updated review.
Abstract: Safranal (a monoterpene aldehyde) is the major volatile component of saffron which is responsible for the saffron unique odor. Several studies have shown the pharmacological activities of safranal including anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory, cardioprotective, neuroprotective, nephroprotective, gastrointestinal protective, etc. This study was designed to review the pharmacological and medical effects of safranal and up-to-date previous knowledge. Moreover, some patents related to the pharmacological effects of safranal were gathered. Therefore, electronic databases including Web of Sciences, Scopus, and Pubmed for pharmacological effects and US patent, Patentscope, and Google Patent for patents were comprehensively searched by related English keywords from 2010 to June 2022. According to our review, most of the studies are related to the safranal effects on CNS such as antianxiety, analgesic, anticonvulsant, antiischemic, anti-tremor, memory enhancement and its protective effects on neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson and Huntington diseases. Other effects of safranal are antiasthmatic, antihypertensive, antiaging, anticataract, etc. Moreover, the protective effects of this agent on metabolic syndrome and diabetic nephropathy have been shown. Different mechanisms including anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory, muscle relaxation, antiapoptotic, and regulatory effects on the genes and proteins expression related to signaling pathways of oxidative stress, inflammation, apoptosis, proliferation, etc. are involved in safranal pharmacological effects. Some patents for the prevention and/or treatment of different diseases such as liver cancer, sleep disorder, depression, cognitive disorder, obesity and PMS were also included. Based on the documents, safranal is considered a promising therapeutic agent although more clinical studies are needed to verify the beneficial effects of safranal in humans.

652. Recent progress in the intranasal PLGA-based drug delivery for neurodegenerative diseases treatment.
Abstract: One of the most challenging problems of the current treatments of neurodegenerative diseases is related to the permeation and access of most therapeutic agents to the central nervous system (CNS), prevented by the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Recently, intranasal (IN) delivery has opened new prospects because it directly delivers drugs for neurological diseases into the brain via the olfactory route. Recently, PLGA-based nanocarriers have attracted a lot of interest for IN delivery of drugs. This review gathered clear and concise statements of the recent progress of the various developed PLGA-based nanocarriers for IN drug delivery in brain diseases including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, brain tumors, ischemia, epilepsy, depression, and schizophrenia. Subsequently, future perspectives and challenges of PLGA-based IN administration are discussed briefly.

653. New Horizons in Cancer Treatment: A Closer Look at Novel PI3Kα Inhibitors.
Abstract: Phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), a lipid messenger in cellular biology, regulates numerous cellular responses, including cell survival and migration. Abnormal activation of PI3K has been identified in many human tumors, implicating it as a pivotal point in cancer research. PI3K inhibitors have shown promise in controlling tumor progression and chemotherapy resistance. However, challenges like cutaneous adverse effects require further research. The PI3K signaling pathway's role in cellular processes, such as aging and Alzheimer's disease progression, also signifies its importance in drug development for aging-related diseases. Future research promises innovative therapeutic strategies targeting PI3K in managing cancer, aging, and neurodegenerative diseases. This Patent Highlight showcases compounds and compositions that may enlarge the PI3K inhibitory therapeutic window-effectively inhibiting the target in cancer cells while reducing toxicity in patients.

654. Bibliometric analysis of research on neurodegenerative diseases and single-cell RNA sequencing: Opportunities and challenges.
Abstract: Neurodegeneration, characterized by the progressive deterioration in neuronal structure or function, presents an elusive mechanism. The use of single-cell RNA sequencing (scRNA-seq) technology in the clinic is becoming increasingly prevalent in recent decades. This technology offers unparalleled cell-level insights into neurodegenerative diseases, establishing itself as a potent tool for elucidating these diseases underlying mechanisms. Here, we made a deep investigation for scRNA-seq research in neurodegenerative diseases using bibliometric analysis from 2009 to 2022. We observed a robust upward trajectory in the number of publications on this subject. The United States stood out as the principal contributor to this expanding field. Specifically, the University of California System exhibited notable research prowess in this field. Alzheimer disease and Parkinson disease were the diseases most frequently investigated. Key research hotspots include the creation of a molecular brain atlas and identification of vulnerable neuronal subpopulations and potential therapeutic targets at the transcriptomic level.

655. NcRNAs: A synergistically antiapoptosis therapeutic tool in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: The aim of this review is to systematically summarize and analyze the noncoding RNAs (ncRNAs), especially microRNAs (miRNAs), long noncoding RNAs (lncRNAs), and circular RNAs (circRNAs), in the cell apoptosis among Alzheimer's disease (AD) in recent years to demonstrate their value in the diagnosis and treatment of AD.

656. Integrating single-nucleus sequence profiling to reveal the transcriptional dynamics of Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and multiple sclerosis.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and multiple sclerosis (MS) are three nervous system diseases that partially overlap clinically and genetically. However, bulk RNA-sequencing did not accurately detect the core pathogenic molecules in them. The availability of high-quality single cell RNA-sequencing data of post-mortem brain collections permits the generation of a large-scale gene expression in different cells in human brain, focusing on the molecular features and relationships between diseases and genes. We integrated single-nucleus RNA-sequencing (snRNA-seq) datasets of human brains with AD, PD, and MS to identify transcriptomic commonalities and distinctions among them.

657. Tau suppresses microtubule-regulated pancreatic insulin secretion.
Abstract: Tau protein is implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other tauopathies, but its physiological function is in debate. Mostly explored in the brain, tau is also expressed in the pancreas. We further explored the mechanism of tau's involvement in the regulation of glucose-stimulated insulin secretion (GSIS) in islet β-cells, and established a potential relationship between type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and AD. We demonstrate that pancreatic tau is crucial for insulin secretion regulation and glucose homeostasis. Tau levels were found to be elevated in β-islet cells of patients with T2DM, and loss of tau enhanced insulin secretion in cell lines, drosophila, and mice. Pharmacological or genetic suppression of tau in the db/db diabetic mouse model normalized glucose levels by promoting insulin secretion and was recapitulated by pharmacological inhibition of microtubule assembly. Clinical studies further showed that serum tau protein was positively correlated with blood glucose levels in healthy controls, which was lost in AD. These findings present tau as a common therapeutic target between AD and T2DM.

658. Microglia in neurodegenerative diseases: mechanism and potential therapeutic targets.
Abstract: Microglia activation is observed in various neurodegenerative diseases. Recent advances in single-cell technologies have revealed that these reactive microglia were with high spatial and temporal heterogeneity. Some identified microglia in specific states correlate with pathological hallmarks and are associated with specific functions. Microglia both exert protective function by phagocytosing and clearing pathological protein aggregates and play detrimental roles due to excessive uptake of protein aggregates, which would lead to microglial phagocytic ability impairment, neuroinflammation, and eventually neurodegeneration. In addition, peripheral immune cells infiltration shapes microglia into a pro-inflammatory phenotype and accelerates disease progression. Microglia also act as a mobile vehicle to propagate protein aggregates. Extracellular vesicles released from microglia and autophagy impairment in microglia all contribute to pathological progression and neurodegeneration. Thus, enhancing microglial phagocytosis, reducing microglial-mediated neuroinflammation, inhibiting microglial exosome synthesis and secretion, and promoting microglial conversion into a protective phenotype are considered to be promising strategies for the therapy of neurodegenerative diseases. Here we comprehensively review the biology of microglia and the roles of microglia in neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple system atrophy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, frontotemporal dementia, progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration, dementia with Lewy bodies and Huntington's disease. We also summarize the possible microglia-targeted interventions and treatments against neurodegenerative diseases with preclinical and clinical evidence in cell experiments, animal studies, and clinical trials.

659. The VCAM1-ApoE pathway directs microglial chemotaxis and alleviates Alzheimer's disease pathology.
Abstract: In Alzheimer's disease (AD), sensome receptor dysfunction impairs microglial danger-associated molecular pattern (DAMP) clearance and exacerbates disease pathology. Although extrinsic signals, including interleukin-33 (IL-33), can restore microglial DAMP clearance, it remains largely unclear how the sensome receptor is regulated and interacts with DAMP during phagocytic clearance. Here, we show that IL-33 induces VCAM1 in microglia, which promotes microglial chemotaxis toward amyloid-beta (Aβ) plaque-associated ApoE, and leads to Aβ clearance. We show that IL-33 stimulates a chemotactic state in microglia, characterized by Aβ-directed migration. Functional screening identified that VCAM1 directs microglial Aβ chemotaxis by sensing Aβ plaque-associated ApoE. Moreover, we found that disrupting VCAM1-ApoE interaction abolishes microglial Aβ chemotaxis, resulting in decreased microglial clearance of Aβ. In patients with AD, higher cerebrospinal fluid levels of soluble VCAM1 were correlated with impaired microglial Aβ chemotaxis. Together, our findings demonstrate that promoting VCAM1-ApoE-dependent microglial functions ameliorates AD pathology.

660. Stem cells-derived exosomes alleviate neurodegeneration and Alzheimer's pathogenesis by ameliorating neuroinflamation, and regulating the associated molecular pathways.
Abstract: Amyloid beta (Aβ) aggregation and tau hyper phosphorylation (p-tau) are key molecular factors in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The abnormal formation and accumulation of Aβ and p-tau lead to the formation of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) which ultimately leads to neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. β- and γ-secretases produce Aβ peptides via the amyloidogenic pathway, and several kinases are involved in tau phosphorylation. Exosomes, a recently developed method of intercellular communication, derived from neuronal stem cells (NSC-exos), are intriguing therapeutic options for AD. Exosomes have ability to cross the BBB hence highly recommended for brain related diseases and disorders. In the current study, we examined how NSC-exos could protect human neuroblastoma cells SH-SY5Y (ATCC CRL-2266). NSC-exos were derived from Human neural stem cells (ATCC-BYS012) by ultracentrifugation and the therapeutic effects of the NSC-exos were then investigated in vitro. NSC-exos controlled the associated molecular processes to drastically lower Aβ and p-tau. A dose dependent reduction in β- and γ-secretase, acetylcholinesterase, GSK3β, CDK5, and activated α-secretase activities was also seen. We further showed that BACE1, PSEN1, CDK5, and GSK-3β mRNA expression was suppressed and downregulated, while ADAM10 mRNA was increased. NSC- Exos downregulate NF-B/ERK/JNK-related signaling pathways in activated glial cells HMC3 (ATCC-CRL-3304) and reduce inflammatory mediators such iNOS, IL-1β, TNF-α, and IL-6, which are associated with neuronal inflammation. The NSC-exos therapy ameliorated the neurodegeneration of human neuroblastoma cells SH-SY5Y by enhancing viability. Overall, these findings support that exosomes produced from stem cells can be a neuro-protective therapy to alleviate AD pathology.

661. Functional characterization of Alzheimer's disease genetic variants in microglia.
Abstract: Candidate cis-regulatory elements (cCREs) in microglia demonstrate the most substantial enrichment for Alzheimer's disease (AD) heritability compared to other brain cell types. However, whether and how these genome-wide association studies (GWAS) variants contribute to AD remain elusive. Here we prioritize 308 previously unreported AD risk variants at 181 cCREs by integrating genetic information with microglia-specific 3D epigenome annotation. We further establish the link between functional variants and target genes by single-cell CRISPRi screening in microglia. In addition, we show that AD variants exhibit allelic imbalance on target gene expression. In particular, rs7922621 is the effective variant in controlling TSPAN14 expression among other nominated variants in the same cCRE and exerts multiple physiological effects including reduced cell surface ADAM10 and altered soluble TREM2 (sTREM2) shedding. Our work represents a systematic approach to prioritize and characterize AD-associated variants and provides a roadmap for advancing genetic association to experimentally validated cell-type-specific phenotypes and mechanisms.

662. Tauopathy promotes spinal cord-dependent production of toxic amyloid-beta in transgenic monkeys.
Abstract: Tauopathy, characterized by the hyperphosphorylation and accumulation of the microtubule-associated protein tau, and the accumulation of Aβ oligomers, constitute the major pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease. However, the relationship and causal roles of these two pathological changes in neurodegeneration remain to be defined, even though they occur together or independently in several neurodegenerative diseases associated with cognitive and movement impairment. While it is widely accepted that Aβ accumulation leads to tauopathy in the late stages of the disease, it is still unknown whether tauopathy influences the formation of toxic Aβ oligomers. To address this, we generated transgenic cynomolgus monkey models expressing Tau (P301L) through lentiviral infection of monkey embryos. These monkeys developed age-dependent neurodegeneration and motor dysfunction. Additionally, we performed a stereotaxic injection of adult monkey and mouse brains to express Tau (P301L) via AAV9 infection. Importantly, we found that tauopathy resulting from embryonic transgenic Tau expression or stereotaxic brain injection of AAV-Tau selectively promoted the generation of Aβ oligomers in the monkey spinal cord. These Aβ oligomers were recognized by several antibodies to Aβ1-42 and contributed to neurodegeneration. However, the generation of Aβ oligomers was not observed in other brain regions of Tau transgenic monkeys or in the brains of mice injected with AAV9-Tau (P301L), suggesting that the generation of Aβ oligomers is species- and brain region-dependent. Our findings demonstrate for the first time that tauopathy can trigger Aβ pathology in the primate spinal cord and provide new insight into the pathogenesis and treatment of tauopathy.

663. Increasing O-GlcNAcylation Attenuates tau Hyperphosphorylation and Behavioral Impairment in rTg4510 Tauopathy Mice.
Abstract: Tauopathies such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) are characterized by abnormal hyperphosphorylation of the microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) aggregating into neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs). O-linked β-N-acetylglucosamine (O-GlcNAc) modifications have been suggested to regulate tau phosphorylation and aggregation and N-acetylglucosaminidase (OGA) removes GlcNAc moieties from proteins.

664. Neuroprotective Potential of Punicalagin, a Natural Component of Pomegranate Polyphenols: A Review.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative diseases (NDs), such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), are major health problems worldwide. To date, available remedies against NDs are limited. In fact, current treatment options include drug intervention and nutritional therapy, which mainly focus on the repair of neuronal damage and functional monitoring. However, these treatments do not completely alleviate disease symptoms. Recently, eliminating harmful molecules, such as reactive oxygen species, and inhibiting neuroinflammation have become potential strategies recommended by many researchers. Accordingly, remarkable interest has been generated in recent years regarding natural products, including polyphenols, that provide neuroprotective effects. In this review, we aimed to provide experimental evidence of the therapeutic potential of punicalagin (PUN), a prevailing compound in pomegranate polyphenols with antioxidant activity. Overall, the chemistry, methods of determination, characteristics of metabolism, transformation mechanisms of action, and neuroprotective effects of PUN on NDs are summarised to provide a scientific basis for elucidating the therapeutic mechanisms and targets of NDs.

665. The Role of Pyroptosis in Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Pyroptosis is a type of regulated cell death that relies on caspases, vesicles, and the cleavage of gasdermin proteins (which create pores in the cell membrane). The nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome, which is involved in this process, is the most widely studied inflammasome. Caspase-1 activates pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as IL-1β and IL-18. Gasdermin D (GSDMD) is the most important executive protein. GSDMD, a substrate rather than an upstream protease, determines the occurrence of pyroptosis. Pyroptosis is essential for maintaining body homeostasis, but excessive or poorly regulated cell death can aggravate the inflammatory response. Undoubtedly, this will be an important direction for future research on Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we review recent research progress on the morphological characteristics, molecular mechanisms, and role of pyroptosis in the context of AD, thereby providing new directions for identifying potential disease biomarkers and treatment strategies for AD.

666. EEF1A1 is Involved the Regulating Neuroinflammatory Processes in Parkinson's Disease.
Abstract: Studies have reported that the RNA-binding protein Eukaryotic Elongation Factor 1A1 (EEF1A1) is low expressed in the hippocampal region of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In addition, it is related to PARK2 activity in cells, predicting its importance in neurodegenerative diseases. However, the function of EEF1A1 in Parkinson's disease (PD) is unclear. Our study's primary objective was to knock down EEF1A1 in U251 cells and preliminarily explore the role of EEF1A1 in PD neuroinflammation.

667. Protective effect of a standardized Allium jesdianum extract in an Alzheimer's disease induced rat model.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a complex disorder with multiple underlying mechanisms. Existing treatment options mostly address symptom management and are associated with numerous side effects. Therefore, exploring alternative therapeutic agents derived from medicinal plants, which contain various bioactive compounds with diverse pharmacological effects, holds promise for AD treatment. This study aims to assess the protective effects of the hydroalcoholic extract of Allium jesdianum on cognitive dysfunction, mitochondrial and cellular parameters, as well as genetic parameters in an intracerebroventricular Streptozotocin (icv-STZ) induced rat model of AD. Male Wistar rats were injected with a single dose of STZ (3 mg/kg, icv) to establish a sporadic AD model. A. jesdianum extract (100, 200, and 400 mg/kg/day) and donepezil (5 mg/kg/day) were orally administered for 14 days following model induction. Cognitive function was evaluated using the radial arm water maze test. Mitochondrial toxicity parameters in various brain regions (whole brain, frontal cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum) were assessed. Gene expression analysis of miR-330, miR-132, Bax, and Bcl-2 in isolated rat brain neurons was performed using RT-qPCR. A. jesdianum extract significantly attenuated cognitive dysfunction and mitigated mitochondrial toxicity induced by icv-STZ administration. Following STZ injection, there was upregulation of Bax gene expression and downregulation of miR-330, miR-132, and Bcl-2 gene expression. Treatment with A. jesdianum extract resulted in the reversal of the expression of these microRNAs and genes, indicating its potential for improving AD and reducing neuronal apoptosis. This study demonstrates the neuroprotective capabilities of A. jesdianum against STZ-induced oxidative stress and cognitive impairment in rats, highlighting its therapeutic potential in the management of AD.

668. Mediodorsal thalamus-projecting anterior cingulate cortex neurons modulate helping behavior in mice.
Abstract: Many species living in groups can perform prosocial behaviors via voluntarily helping others with or without benefits for themselves. To provide a better understanding of the neural basis of such prosocial behaviors, we adapted a preference lever-switching task in which mice can prevent harm to others by switching from using a lever that causes shocks to a conspecific one that does not. We found the harm avoidance behavior was mediated by self-experience and visual and social contact but not by gender or familiarity. By combining single-unit recordings and analysis of neural trajectory decoding, we demonstrated the dynamics of anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) neural activity changes synchronously with the harm avoidance performance of mice. In addition, ACC neurons projected to the mediodorsal thalamus (MDL) to modulate the harm avoidance behavior. Optogenetic activation of the ACC-MDL circuit during non-preferred lever pressing (nPLP) and inhibition of this circuit during preferred lever pressing (PLP) both resulted in the loss of harm avoidance ability. This study revealed the ACC-MDL circuit modulates prosocial behavior to avoid harm to conspecifics and may shed light on the treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders with dysfunction of prosocial behavior.

669. Hepatic soluble epoxide hydrolase: A promising target for unveiling the liver-brain axis in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Wu and Dong et al.1 report that hepatic soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH) manipulation impacts amyloid-β (Aβ) deposits and cognitive impairment in mouse models for Alzheimer's disease (AD), suggesting that hepatic sEH activity is a promising therapeutic target to treat AD.

670. Effect of cycloastragenol and punicalagin on Prp(106-126) and Aβ(25-35) oligomerization and fibrillizaton.
Abstract: Numerous neurological disorders, including prion, Parkinson's, and Alzheimer's disease (AD), are identified as being caused by alterations in protein conformation, aggregation, and metal ion dyshomeostasis. Recent years have seen a significant increase in the exploration and study of natural products (NPs) from plant and microbial sources for their therapeutic potential against several diseases, including cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, we have examined the effect of two NPs, cycloastragenol (CAG) and punicalagin (PCG), on the metal-induced oligomerization and aggregation of Aβ25-35 and PrP106-126 peptides. The peptide aggregation and inhibitory properties of both NPs were examined by the thioflavin-T (ThT) assay, MALDI-TOF, circular dichroism (CD) spectroscopy, and transmission electron microscopy (TEM). Among the two NPs, PCG significantly binds to the peptides, chelates metal ions (Cu2+ and Zn2+), inhibits peptide aggregation, substantially reduces oxidative stress, and controls the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Both NPs exhibited low cytotoxicity and prominently mitigated peptide-mediated cell cytotoxicity in hippocampal neuronal HT-22 cells by covalent bonding and hydrophobic interactions.

671. Galantamine-memantine hybrids for Alzheimer's disease: The influence of linker rigidity in biological activity and pharmacokinetic properties.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative processes characterizing Alzheimer's disease (AD) are strictly related to the impairment of cholinergic and glutamatergic neurotransmitter systems which provoke synaptic loss. These experimental evidences still represent the foundation of the actual standard-of-care treatment for AD, albeit palliative, consisting on the coadministration of an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor and the NMDAR antagonist memantine. In looking for more effective treatments, we previously developed a series of galantamine-memantine hybrids where compound 1 (ARN14140) emerged with the best-balanced action toward the targets of interest paired to neuroprotective efficacy in a murine AD model. Unfortunately, it showed a suboptimal pharmacokinetic profile, which required intracerebroventricular administration for in vivo studies. In this work we designed and synthesized new hybrids with fewer rotatable bonds, which is related to higher brain exposure. Particularly, compound 2, bearing a double bond in the tether, ameliorated the biological profile of compound 1 in invitro studies, increasing cholinesterases inhibitory potencies and selective antagonism toward excitotoxic-related GluN1/2B NMDAR over beneficial GluN1/2A NMDAR. Furthermore, it showed increased plasma stability and comparable microsomal stability in vitro, paired with lower half-life and faster clearance in vivo. Remarkably, pharmacokinetic evaluations of compound 2 showed a promising increase in brain uptake in comparison to compound 1, representing the starting point for further chemical optimizations.

672. A monocarboxylate transporter rescues frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer's disease models.
Abstract: Brains are highly metabolically active organs, consuming 20% of a person's energy at resting state. A decline in glucose metabolism is a common feature across a number of neurodegenerative diseases. Another common feature is the progressive accumulation of insoluble protein deposits, it's unclear if the two are linked. Glucose metabolism in the brain is highly coupled between neurons and glia, with glucose taken up by glia and metabolised to lactate, which is then shuttled via transporters to neurons, where it is converted back to pyruvate and fed into the TCA cycle for ATP production. Monocarboxylates are also involved in signalling, and play broad ranging roles in brain homeostasis and metabolic reprogramming. However, the role of monocarboxylates in dementia has not been tested. Here, we find that increasing pyruvate import in Drosophila neurons by over-expression of the transporter bumpel, leads to a rescue of lifespan and behavioural phenotypes in fly models of both frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer's disease. The rescue is linked to a clearance of late stage autolysosomes, leading to degradation of toxic peptides associated with disease. We propose upregulation of pyruvate import into neurons as potentially a broad-scope therapeutic approach to increase neuronal autophagy, which could be beneficial for multiple dementias.

673. Design and development of donepezil hydrochloride loaded nanostructured lipid carriers for efficient management of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: The primary objective of this study was to develop nanostructured lipid carriers of donepezil hydrochloride (DNZ HCl) for effective management of Alzheimer's disease (AD).

674. Transcriptomics Meta-Analysis Reveals Phagosome and Innate Immune System Dysfunction as Potential Mechanisms in the Cortex of Alzheimer's Disease Mouse Strains.
Abstract: Immune-related pathways can affect the immune system directly, such as the chemokine signaling pathway, or indirectly, such as the phagosome pathway. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is reportedly associated with several immune-related pathways. However, exploring its underlying mechanism is challenging in animal studies because AD mouse strains differentially express immune-related pathway characteristics. To overcome this problem, we performed a meta-analysis to identify significant and consistent immune-related AD pathways that are expressed in different AD mouse strains. Next-generation RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) and microarray datasets for the cortex of AD mice from different strains such as APP/PSEN1, APP/PS2, 3xTg, TREM, and 5xFAD were collected from the NCBI GEO database. Each dataset's quality control and normalization were already processed from each original study source using various methods depending on the high-throughput analysis platform (FastQC, median of ratios, RMA, between array normalization). Datasets were analyzed using DESeq2 for RNA-seq and GEO2R for microarray to identify differentially expressed (DE) genes. Significantly DE genes were meta-analyzed using Stouffer's method, with significant genes further analyzed for functional enrichment. Ten datasets representing 20 conditions were obtained from the NCBI GEO database, comprising 116 control and 120 AD samples. The DE analysis identified 284 significant DE genes. The meta-analysis identified three significantly enriched immune-related AD pathways: phagosome, the complement and coagulation cascade, and chemokine signaling. Phagosomes-related genes correlated with complement and immune system. Meanwhile, phagosomes and chemokine signaling genes overlapped with B cells receptors pathway genes indicating potential correlation between phagosome, chemokines, and adaptive immune system as well. The transcriptomic meta-analysis showed that AD is associated with immune-related pathways in the brain's cortex through the phagosome, complement and coagulation cascade, and chemokine signaling pathways. Interestingly, phagosome and chemokine signaling pathways had potential correlation with B cells receptors pathway.

675. Artificial light and neurodegeneration: does light pollution impact the development of Alzheimer's disease?
Abstract: Two multidimensional problems of recent times - Alzheimer's disease and light pollution - seem to be more interrelated than previously expected. A series of studies in years explore the pathogenesis and the course of Alzheimer's disease, yet the mechanisms underlying this pathology remain not fully discovered and understood. Artificial lights which accompany civilization on a daily basis appear to have more detrimental effects on both environment and human health than previously anticipated. Circadian rhythm is affected by inappropriate lighting conditions in particular. The consequences are dysregulation of the sleep-wake cycle, gene expression, neuronal restructuring, brain's electricity, blood flow, metabolites' turnover, and gut microbiota as well. All these phenomena may contribute to neurodegeneration and consequently Alzheimer's disease. There is an increasing number of research underlining the complexity of the correlation between light pollution and Alzheimer's disease; however, additional studies to enhance the key tenets are required for a better understanding of this relationship.

676. Paradigm Shift: Multiple Potential Pathways to Neurodegenerative Dementia.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative dementia can result from multiple underlying abnormalities, including neurotransmitter imbalances, protein aggregation, and other neurotoxic events. A major complication in identifying effective treatment targets is the frequent co-occurrence of multiple neurodegenerative processes, occurring either in parallel or sequentially. The path towards developing effective treatments for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other dementias has been relatively slow and until recently has focused on disease symptoms. Aducanumab and lecanemab, recently approved by the FDA, are meant to target disease structures but have only modest benefit on symptom progression and remain unproven in reversing or preventing dementia. A third, donanemab, appears more promising but awaits FDA approval. Ongoing trials include potential cognition enhancers, new combinations of known drugs for synergistic effects, prodrugs with less toxicity, and increasing interest in drugs targeting neuroinflammation or microbiome. Scientific and technological advances offer the opportunity to move in new therapy directions, such as modifying microglia to prevent or suppress underlying disease. A major challenge, however, is that underlying comorbidities likely influence the effectiveness of therapies. Indeed, the full range of comorbidity, today only definitively identified postmortem, likely contributes to failed clinical trials and overmedication of older adults, since it is difficult to exclude (during life) people unlikely to respond. Our current knowledge thus signals that a paradigm shift towards individualized and multimodal treatments is necessary to effectively advance the field of dementia therapeutics.

677. Design of an electrochemical aptasensor in the presence of an array of gold nanostructure and a GO-MWCNTs nanocomposite: application in diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is considered one of the main progressive chronic diseases in elderly individuals. Early diagnosis using related biomarkers, specifically beta-amyloid peptide (Aβ), allows finding expected treatment routes. Here, we developed an electrochemical aptasensing platform for AD by employing a glassy carbon electrode (GCE) modified with a layer of jagged gold (JG) nanostructure (diameter: 60-185 nm) and graphene oxide-carboxylic acid functionalized multiwalled carbon nanotubes (GO-c-MWCNTs) nanocomposite. These surface modifications acted as the signal amplifier and provided an optimum nano-interface substrate for immobilizing aptamer strands. The measurements of Aβ were performed via differential pulse voltammetry (DPV), and the aptasensor detected the analyte in a linear range from 0.1 pg mL-1 to 1 ng mL-1, with an estimated limit of detection (LOD) of about 0.088 pg mL-1 (S/N = 3). The aptasensor showed sufficient stability (11 days), reversibility (three times), and reproducibility (five times re-fabrication with relative standard deviation (RSD): 1.27). The potential interfering agents showed negligible impact on the sensing performance. Finally, the application of the aptasensor was evaluated in the presence of 10 serum samples, and the recovery values were from 93 to 110.1%.

678. Cholinergic deficit induced memory retrieval impairment and hippocampal CaMKII-alpha deregulation is counteracted by sub-chronic agmatine treatment in mice.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease characterized by brain cholinergic dysfunction. Evidence suggests the impairment of memory retrieval phase in AD. It has been shown that CaMKII-α expressing neurons are selectively reduced in the hippocampus in AD brains. The present study aimed to investigate the effect of scopolamine on the memory retrieval phase and the hippocampal CaMKII-α signaling. In addition, the effect of sub-chronic administration of agmatine against scopolamine induced memory and possible hippocampal CaMKII-α deregulation was investigated in mice. Adult male NMRI mice were administered with agmatine at the doses of 5, 10, 20, 30 and 40 mg/kg/i.p. or saline for 11 days. Acquisition and retrieval tests of passive avoidance task were performed on days 10 and 11, respectively (30 Min following agmatine treatment). Scopolamine (1 mg/kg/i.p.) was administered once, 30 Min before retrieval test. Upon completion of the behavioral tasks, the hippocampi were isolated for western blot analysis to detect the phosphorylated and total levels of CaMKII-α and beta actin proteins. The results showed that scopolamine induced memory retrieval deficit and decreased the phosphorylated level of hippocampal CaMKII-α. Sub-chronic agmatine treatment at the dose of 40 mg/kg prevented scopolamine induced memory retrieval deficit and restored the level of hippocampal phosphorylated CaMKII-α. This study suggests that hippocampal CaMKII-α might play a role in scopolamine induced amnesia and sub-chronic agmatine prevents the impairing effect of scopolamine on the retrieval phase of memory and the phosphorylation of hippocampal CaMKII-α protein.

679. New Alzheimer Drug Gains Full Approval.
Abstract: Abstract not available for PMID: 37732666

680. Effects of lithium on serum Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor in Alzheimer's patients with agitation.
Abstract: There is ample evidence in animal models that lithium increases Brain-Derived Neurotrophic Factor (BDNF) with supporting evidence in human studies. Little is known, however, about the effects of lithium on BDNF in Alzheimer's Dementia (AD). In one study of patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment, serum BDNF increased after treatment with lithium. These patients also showed mild improvement in cognitive function.

681. Basic Mechanisms of Brain Injury and Cognitive Decline in Hypertension: Dementia Series.
Abstract: Dementia affects almost 50 million adults worldwide, and remains a major cause of death and disability. Hypertension is a leading risk factor for dementia, including Alzheimer disease and Alzheimer disease-related dementias. Although this association is well-established, the mechanisms underlying hypertension-induced cognitive decline remain poorly understood. By exploring the mechanisms mediating the detrimental effects of hypertension on the brain, studies have aimed to provide therapeutic insights and strategies on how to protect the brain from the effects of blood pressure elevation. In this review, we focus on the basic mechanisms contributing to the cerebrovascular adaptions to elevated blood pressure and hypertension-induced microvascular injury. We also assess the cellular mechanisms of neurovascular unit dysfunction, focusing on the premise that cognitive impairment ensues when the dynamic metabolic demands of neurons are not met due to neurovascular uncoupling, and summarize cognitive deficits across various rodent models of hypertension as a resource for investigators. Despite significant advances in antihypertensive therapy, hypertension remains a critical risk factor for cognitive decline, and several questions remain about the development and progression of hypertension-induced cognitive impairment.

682. Ascertainment and Statistical Issues for Randomized Trials of Cardiovascular Interventions for Cognitive Impairment and Dementia: Dementia Series.
Abstract: There has been considerable progress in the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular disease, reducing the population burden of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Recently, some randomized trials, including the SPRINT (Systolic Blood Pressure Intervention Trial), have suggested that improvements in cardiovascular risk factors may also slow cognitive decline and reduce the eventual development of dementia. Unfortunately, the randomized trial template that has been used repeatedly to successfully demonstrate reductions in major adverse cardiac events faces several design and analytic obstacles when applied in the context of cognitive decline and dementia. Here, we review these obstacles, motivated by SPRINT and the context of selecting an appropriate cognitive end point for future preventive randomized trials. A few options are available, spanning neuropsychological test scores or composites reflecting specific domains of cognitive function, adjudicated cognitive impairment, or potentially physiological biomarkers. This choice entails considerations around statistical power, modes of ascertainment, the clinical relevance of treatment effects, a myriad of statistical issues (interval censoring, missing data, the competing risk of death, practice effects, etc), as well as ethical considerations around equipoise. Collectively, these considerations indicate that trials aiming to mitigate the cardiovascular contribution to cognitive decline and dementia will generally need to be large, inclusive of a wide age range of older adults, and with multiple years of follow-up.

683. Astrocyte metabolism and signaling pathways in the CNS.
Abstract: Astrocytes comprise half of the cells in the central nervous system and play a critical role in maintaining metabolic homeostasis. Metabolic dysfunction in astrocytes has been indicated as the primary cause of neurological diseases, such as depression, Alzheimer's disease, and epilepsy. Although the metabolic functionalities of astrocytes are well known, their relationship to neurological disorders is poorly understood. The ways in which astrocytes regulate the metabolism of glucose, amino acids, and lipids have all been implicated in neurological diseases. Metabolism in astrocytes has also exhibited a significant influence on neuron functionality and the brain's neuro-network. In this review, we focused on metabolic processes present in astrocytes, most notably the glucose metabolic pathway, the fatty acid metabolic pathway, and the amino-acid metabolic pathway. For glucose metabolism, we focused on the glycolysis pathway, pentose-phosphate pathway, and oxidative phosphorylation pathway. In fatty acid metabolism, we followed fatty acid oxidation, ketone body metabolism, and sphingolipid metabolism. For amino acid metabolism, we summarized neurotransmitter metabolism and the serine and kynurenine metabolic pathways. This review will provide an overview of functional changes in astrocyte metabolism and provide an overall perspective of current treatment and therapy for neurological disorders.

684. Understanding neuropsychiatric symptoms in Alzheimer's disease: challenges and advances in diagnosis and treatment.
Abstract: Neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) affect up to 97% of AD patients, with an estimated 80% of current AD patients experiencing these symptoms. Common AD-associated NPS include depression, anxiety, agitation, aggression, and apathy. The severity of NPS in AD is typically linked to the disease's progression and the extent of cognitive decline. Additionally, these symptoms are responsible for a significant increase in morbidity, mortality, caregiver burden, earlier nursing home placement, and greater healthcare expenditure. Despite their high prevalence and significant impact, there is a notable lack of clinical research on NPS in AD. In this article, we explore and analyze the prevalence, symptom manifestations, challenges in diagnosis, and treatment options of NPS associated with AD. Our literature review reveals that distinguishing and accurately diagnosing the NPS associated with AD remains a challenging task in clinical settings. It is often difficult to discern whether NPS are secondary to pathophysiological changes from AD or are comorbid psychiatric conditions. Furthermore, the availability of effective pharmaceutical interventions, as well as non-pharmacotherapies for NPS in AD, remains limited. By highlighting the advance and challenges in diagnosis and treatment of AD-associated NPS, we aspire to offer new insights into the complexity of identifying and treating these symptoms within the context of AD, and contribute to a deeper understanding of the multifaceted nature of NPS in AD.

685. Calpain signaling: from biology to therapeutic opportunities in neurodegenerative disorders.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative disorders represent a major and growing healthcare challenge globally. Among the numerous molecular pathways implicated in their pathogenesis, calpain signaling has emerged as a crucial player in neuronal dysfunction and cell death. Calpain is a family of calcium-dependent cysteine proteases that is involved in many biological processes, such as signal transduction, cytoskeleton remodeling, and protein turnover. Dysregulation of calpain activation and activity has been associated with several neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's diseases. Understanding the intricate structure of calpains is crucial for unraveling their roles in cellular physiology and their implications in pathology. In addition, the identification of diverse abnormalities in both humans and other animal models with deficiencies in calpain highlights the significant progress made in understanding calpain biology. In this comprehensive review, we delve into the recent roles attributed to calpains and provide an overview of the mechanisms that govern their activity during the progression of neurodegenerative diseases. The possibility of utilizing calpain inhibition as a potential therapeutic approach for treating neuronal dysfunctions in neurodegenerative disorders would be an area of interest in future calpain research.

686. Adiponectin and resistin modulate the progression of Alzheimer´s disease in a metabolic syndrome model.
Abstract: Metabolic syndrome (MetS), a cluster of metabolic conditions that include obesity, hyperlipidemia, and insulin resistance, increases the risk of several aging-related brain diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the underlying mechanism explaining the link between MetS and brain function is poorly understood. Among the possible mediators are several adipose-derived secreted molecules called adipokines, including adiponectin (ApN) and resistin, which have been shown to regulate brain function by modulating several metabolic processes. To investigate the impact of adipokines on MetS, we employed a diet-induced model to induce the various complications associated with MetS. For this purpose, we administered a high-fat diet (HFD) to both WT and APP/PSN1 mice at a pre-symptomatic disease stage. Our data showed that MetS causes a fast decline in cognitive performance and stimulates Aβ42 production in the brain. Interestingly, ApN treatment restored glucose metabolism and improved cognitive functions by 50% while decreasing the Aβ42/40 ratio by approximately 65%. In contrast, resistin exacerbated Aβ pathology, increased oxidative stress, and strongly reduced glucose metabolism. Together, our data demonstrate that ApN and resistin alterations could further contribute to AD pathology.

687. Multisite rTMS combined with cognitive training modulates effective connectivity in patients with Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: To investigate the effective connectivity (EC) changes after multisite repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) combined with cognitive training (COG).

688. Druggable targets for the immunopathy of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is one of the leading threats to the health and socioeconomic well-being of humankind. Though research to develop disease modifying therapies for AD has traditionally focussed on the misfolding and aggregation of proteins, this approach has failed to yield a definitively curative agent. Accordingly, the search for additional or alternative approaches is a medicinal chemistry priority. Dysfunction of the brain's neuroimmune-neuroinflammation axis has emerged as a leading contender. Neuroimmunity however is mechanistically complex, rendering the recognition of candidate receptors a challenging task. Herein, a review of the role of neuroimmunity in the biomolecular pathogenesis of AD is presented with the identification of a 'druggable dozen' targets; in turn, each identified target represents one or more discrete receptors centred on a common biochemical mechanism. The druggable dozen is composed of both cellular and molecular messenger targets, with a 'targetable ten' microglial targets as well as two cytokine-based targets. For each target, the underlying molecular basis, with a consideration of strengths and weaknesses, is considered.

689. Ebselen, Iron Uptake Inhibitor, Alleviates Iron Overload-Induced Senescence-Like Neuronal Cells SH-SY5Y via Suppressing the mTORC1 Signaling Pathway.
Abstract: Increasing evidence highlights that excessive iron accumulation in the brain plays a vital role in neuronal senescence and is implicated in the pathogenesis of age-related neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). Therefore, the chemical compounds that eliminate an iron overload may provide better protection against oxidative stress conditions that cause the accumulation of senescent cells during brain aging. Ebselen has been identified as a strongly useful compound in the research on redox biology mechanisms. We hypothesized that ebselen could alleviate an iron overload-induced oxidative stress and consequently reverses the senescence-like phenotypes in the neuronal cells. In the present study, SH-SY5Y cells were treated with ferric ammonium citrate (FAC) before ebselen, and the evaluation of the cellular iron homeostasis, the indicators of oxidative stress, and the onset of senescence phenotypes and mechanisms were carried out accordingly. Our findings showed that ebselen ameliorated the FAC-mediated iron overload by decreasing the expression of divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1) and ferritin light chain (FT-L) proteins. In contrast, it increased the expression of ferroportin 1 (FPN1) protein and its correlation led to a decrease in the expression of the cytosolic labile iron pool (LIP). Furthermore, ebselen significantly reduced reactive oxygen species (ROS) and rescued the mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm). Notably, ebselen restored the biomarkers of cellular senescence by reducing the number of senescence-associated β-galactosidase (SA-β-gal) positive cells and senescence-associated secretory phenotypes (SASP). This also suppressed the expression of p53 protein targeting DNA damage response (DDR)/p21 cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitor through a mTORC1 signaling pathway. Potentially, ebselen could be a therapeutic agent for treating brain aging and AD by mitigating iron accumulation and restoring senescence in SH-SY5Y cells.

690. Protein quality control: from molecular mechanisms to therapeutic intervention-EMBO workshop, May 21-26 2023, Srebreno, Croatia.
Abstract: Protein quality control pathways ensure a functional proteome and rely on a complex proteostasis network (PN) that is composed of molecular chaperones and proteases. Failures in the PN can lead to a broad spectrum of diseases, including neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and a range of motor neuron diseases. The EMBO workshop "Protein quality control: from molecular mechanisms to therapeutic intervention" covered all aspects of protein quality control from underlying molecular mechanisms of chaperones and proteases to stress signaling pathways and medical implications. This report summarizes the workshop and highlights selected presentations.

691. Microbiome-targeted interventions for the control of oral-gut dysbiosis and chronic systemic inflammation.
Abstract: Recent research has confirmed the strong connection between imbalances in the oral and gut microbiome (oral-gut dysbiosis), periodontitis, and inflammatory conditions such as diabetes, Alzheimer's disease, and cardiovascular diseases. Microbiome modulation is crucial for preventing and treating several autoimmune and inflammatory diseases, including periodontitis. However, the causal relationships between the microbiome and its derived metabolites that mediate periodontitis and chronic inflammation constitute a notable knowledge gap. Here we review the mechanisms involved in the microbiome-host crosstalk, and describe novel precision medicine for the control of systemic inflammation. As microbiome-targeted therapies begin to enter clinical trials, the success of these approaches relies upon understanding these reciprocal microbiome-host interactions, and it may provide new therapeutic avenues to reduce the risk of periodontitis-associated diseases.

692. [Effect of electroacupuncture on proliferation and differentiation of endogenous neural stem cells and Jagged1/Notch1 pathway in hippocampus of APP/PS1 model mice].
Abstract: To investigate the effect of electroacupuncture(EA) stimulation on proliferation and diffe-rentiation of endogenous neural stem cells as well as Jagged1/Notch1 pathway in AD model mice, so as to explore its mechanism underlying amelioration of AD.

693. Semaglutide ameliorates cognition and glucose metabolism dysfunction in the 3xTg mouse model of Alzheimer's disease via the GLP-1R/SIRT1/GLUT4 pathway.
Abstract: Disorders of brain glucose metabolism is known to affect brain activity in neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Furthermore, recent evidence has shown an association between AD and type 2 diabetes. Numerous reports have found that glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists improve the cognitive behavior and pathological features in AD patients and animals, which may be related to the improvement of glucose metabolism in the brain. However, the mechanism by which GLP-1 agonists improve the brain glucose metabolism in AD patients remains unclear. In this study, we found that SIRT1 is closely related to expression of GLP-1R in hippocampus of 3xTg mice. Therefore, we used semaglutide, a novel GLP-1R agonist currently undergoing two phase 3 clinical trials in AD patients, to observe the effect of SIRT1 after semaglutide treatment in 3XTg mice and HT22 cells, and to explore the mechanism of SIRT1 in the glucose metabolism disorders of AD. The mice were injected with semaglutide on alternate days for 30 days, followed by behavioral experiments including open field test, new object recognition test, and Y-maze. The content of glucose in the brain was also measured by using 18FDG-PET-CT scans. We measured the expression of Aβ and tau in the hippocampus, observed the expression of GLUT4 which is downstream of SIRT1, and tested the Glucose oxidase assay (GOD-POD) and Hexokinase (HK) in HT22 cells. Here, we found in the 3xTg mouse model of AD and in cultured HT22 mouse neurons that SIRT1 signaling is involved in the impairment of glucose metabolism in AD. Semaglutide can increased the expression levels of SIRT1 and GLUT4 in the hippocampus of 3xTg mice, accompanied by an improvement in learning and memory, decreased in Aβ plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. In addition, we further demonstrated that semaglutide improved glucose metabolism in the brain of 3xTg mice in vitro, semaglutide promoted glycolysis and improved glycolytic disorders, and increased the membrane translocation of GLUT4 in cultured HT22 cells. These effects were blocked by the SIRT1 inhibitor (EX527). These findings indicate that semaglutide can regulate the expression of GLUT4 to mediate glucose transport through SIRT1, thereby improving glucose metabolism dysfunction in AD mice and cells. The present study suggests that SIRT1/GLUT4 signaling pathway may be an important mechanism for GLP-1R to promote glucose metabolism in the brain, providing a reliable strategy for effective therapy of AD.

694. A fully automated FAIMS-DIA mass spectrometry-based proteomic pipeline.
Abstract: Here, we present a standardized, "off-the-shelf" proteomics pipeline working in a single 96-well plate to achieve deep coverage of cellular proteomes with high throughput and scalability. This integrated pipeline streamlines a fully automated sample preparation platform, a data-independent acquisition (DIA) coupled with high-field asymmetric waveform ion mobility spectrometer (FAIMS) interface, and an optimized library-free DIA database search strategy. Our systematic evaluation of FAIMS-DIA showing single compensation voltage (CV) at -35 V not only yields the deepest proteome coverage but also best correlates with DIA without FAIMS. Our in-depth comparison of direct-DIA database search engines shows that Spectronaut outperforms others, providing the highest quantifiable proteins. Next, we apply three common DIA strategies in characterizing human induced pluripotent stem cell (iPSC)-derived neurons and show single-shot mass spectrometry (MS) using single-CV (-35 V)-FAIMS-DIA results in >9,000 quantifiable proteins with <10% missing values, as well as superior reproducibility and accuracy compared with other existing DIA methods.

695. Alzheimer's disease: From immunotherapy to immunoprevention.
Abstract: Recent Aβ-immunotherapy trials have yielded the first clear evidence that removing aggregated Aβ from the brains of symptomatic patients can slow the progression of Alzheimer's disease. The clinical benefit achieved in these trials has been modest, however, highlighting the need for both a deeper understanding of disease mechanisms and the importance of intervening early in the pathogenic cascade. An immunoprevention strategy for Alzheimer's disease is required that will integrate the findings from clinical trials with mechanistic insights from preclinical disease models to select promising antibodies, optimize the timing of intervention, identify early biomarkers, and mitigate potential side effects.

696. Comorbid amyloid with cerebrovascular disease in domain-specific cognitive and neuropsychiatric disturbances: a cross-sectional memory clinic study.
Abstract: Dementia is a multifactorial disorder that is likely influenced by both Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular pathologies. We evaluated domain-specific cognitive and neuropsychiatric dysfunction using a two-neuroimaging biomarker construct (beta-amyloid [Aβ] and cerebrovascular disease [CeVD]). We analyzed data from 216 memory clinic participants (mean age = 75.9 ± 6.9; 56.5% female) with neuropsychological and neuropsychiatric assessments, 3T-MRI, and Aβ-PET imaging. Structural equation modeling showed that the largest Aβ (A+) effect was on memory (B = -1.50) and apathy (B = 0.26), whereas CeVD effects were largest on language (B = -1.62) and hyperactivity (B = 0.32). Group comparisons showed that the A+C+ group had greater memory impairment (B = -1.55), hyperactivity (B = 0.79), and apathy (B = 0.74) compared to A-C+; and greater language impairment (B = -1.26) compared to A+C-. These potentially additive effects of Aβ and CeVD burden underline the importance of early detection and treatment of Aβ alongside optimal control of vascular risk factors as a potential strategy in preventing cognitive and neurobehavioral impairment.

697. Adjunctive transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) plus sodium benzoate for the treatment of early-phase Alzheimer's disease: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.
Abstract: Previous studies found that an NMDA receptor (NMDAR) enhancer, sodium benzoate, improved cognitive function of patients with early-phase Alzheimer's disease (AD). Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) induces NMDAR-dependent synaptic plasticity and strengthens cognitive function of AD patients. This study aimed to evaluate efficacy and safety of tDCS plus benzoate in early-phase dementia. In this 24-week randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial, 97 patients with early-phase AD received 10-session tDCS during the first 2 weeks. They then took benzoate or placebo for 24 weeks. We assessed the patients using Alzheimer's disease assessment scale - cognitive subscale (ADAS-cog), Clinician's Interview-Based Impression of Change plus Caregiver Input, Mini Mental Status Examination, Alzheimer's disease Cooperative Study scale for ADL in MCI, and a battery of additional cognitive tests. Forty-seven patients received sodium benzoate, and the other 50 placebo. The two treatment groups didn't differ significantly in ADAS-cog or other measures. Addition of benzoate to tDCS didn't get extra benefit or side effect in this study. For more thoroughly studying the potential of combining tDCS with benzoate in the AD treatment, future research should use other study designs, such as longer-term benzoate treatment, adding benzoate in the middle of tDCS trial sessions, or administering benzoate then tDCS.

698. A Live Video Dyadic Resiliency Intervention to Prevent Chronic Emotional Distress Early After Dementia Diagnoses: Protocol for a Dyadic Mixed Methods Study.
Abstract: By 2030, approximately 75 million adults will be living with Alzheimer disease and related dementias (ADRDs). ADRDs produce cognitive, emotional, and behavioral changes for persons living with dementia that undermine independence and produce considerable stressors for persons living with dementia and their spousal care-partners-together called a "dyad." Clinically elevated emotional distress (ie, depression and anxiety symptoms) is common for both dyad members after ADRD diagnosis, which can become chronic and negatively impact relationship functioning, health, quality of life, and collaborative management of progressive symptoms.

699. Hypertension and Stroke as Mediators of Air Pollution Exposure and Incident Dementia.
Abstract: Fine particulate matter air pollution (PM2.5) has been consistently associated with cardiovascular disease, which, in turn, is associated with an increased risk of dementia. As such, vascular dysfunction might be a mechanism by which PM2.5 mediates dementia risk, yet few prior epidemiological studies have examined this potential mechanism.

700. Alzheimer's Disease: Novel Targets and Investigational Drugs for Disease Modification.
Abstract: Novel agents addressing non-amyloid, non-tau targets in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) comprise 70% of the AD drug development pipeline of agents currently in clinical trials. Most of the target processes identified in the Common Alzheimer's Disease Research Ontology (CADRO) are represented by novel agents in trials. Inflammation and synaptic plasticity/neuroprotection are the CADRO categories with the largest number of novel candidate therapies. Within these categories, there are few overlapping targets among the test agents. Additional categories being evaluated include apolipoprotein E [Formula: see text] 4 (APOE4) effects, lipids and lipoprotein receptors, neurogenesis, oxidative stress, bioenergetics and metabolism, vascular factors, cell death, growth factors and hormones, circadian rhythm, and epigenetic regulators. We highlight current drugs being tested within these categories and their mechanisms. Trials will be informative regarding which targets can be modulated to produce a slowing of clinical decline. Possible therapeutic combinations of agents may be suggested by trial outcomes. Biomarkers are evolving in concert with new targets and novel agents, and biomarker outcomes offer a means of supporting disease modification by the putative treatment. Identification of novel targets and development of corresponding therapeutics offer an important means of advancing new treatments for AD.

701. Identifying β-secretase 1 (BACE1) inhibitors from plant-based compounds: an approach targeting Alzheimer's therapeutics employing molecular docking and dynamics simulation.
Abstract: β-secretase 1 (BACE1) is an enzyme that is involved in generating beta-amyloid peptides and is believed to have a significant role in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Therefore, BACE1 has gained attention as a potential therapeutic target for treating AD. Modern drug discovery studies are being conducted to identify potential inhibitors of BACE1, with the goal of reducing the production of beta-amyloid peptides and, thus, slowing the progression of AD. Here, we used a multistep virtual screening methodology to identify phytoconstituents from the IMPPAT library that could inhibit the activity of BACE1. Molecular docking was employed to select initial hits based on their binding affinity toward BACE1. Screening for PAINS patterns, ADMET and PASS properties, was then used to identify potential molecules for BACE1 inhibition. In the end, we discovered two natural compounds, Peiminine and 27-Deoxywithaferin A, which demonstrated a strong affinity, effectiveness, and specific interactions for the BACE1-active site. The elucidated molecules also displayed drug likeliness. A 200 ns molecular dynamics (MD) simulation was conducted to investigate the interaction mechanism, complex stability, and conformational dynamics of BACE1 with Peiminine and 27-Deoxywithaferin A. The MD simulations demonstrated that BACE1 was stable during the simulation with Peiminine and 27-Deoxywithaferin A. Overall, the results suggested that Peiminine and 27-Deoxywithaferin A hold significant potential as scaffolds in drug development efforts targeting BACE1 for the purpose of treating AD.

702. Contribution of extracerebral tracer retention and partial volume effects to sex differences in Flortaucipir-PET signal.
Abstract: Clinically normal females exhibit higher 18F-flortaucipir (FTP)-PET signal than males across the cortex. However, these sex differences may be explained by neuroimaging idiosyncrasies such as off-target extracerebral tracer retention or partial volume effects (PVEs). 343 clinically normal participants (female = 58%; mean[SD]=73.8[8.5] years) and 55 patients with mild cognitive impairment (female = 38%; mean[SD] = 76.9[7.3] years) underwent cross-sectional FTP-PET. We parcellated extracerebral FreeSurfer areas based on proximity to cortical ROIs. Sex differences in cortical tau were then estimated after accounting for local extracerebral retention. We simulated PVE by convolving group-level standardized uptake value ratio means in each ROI with 6 mm Gaussian kernels and compared the sexes across ROIs post-smoothing. Widespread sex differences in extracerebral retention were observed. Although attenuating sex differences in cortical tau-PET signal, covarying for extracerebral retention did not impact the largest sex differences in tau-PET signal. Differences in PVE were observed in both female and male directions with no clear sex-specific bias. Our findings suggest that sex differences in FTP are not solely attributed to off-target extracerebral retention or PVE, consistent with the notion that sex differences in medial temporal and neocortical tau are biologically driven. Future work should investigate sex differences in regional cerebral blood flow kinetics and longitudinal tau-PET.

703. Microbiota-Gut-Brain Axis Dysregulation in Alzheimer's Disease: Multi-Pathway Effects and Therapeutic Potential.
Abstract: An essential regulator of neurodegenerative conditions like Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the gut microbiota. Alterations in intestinal permeability brought on by gut microbiota dysregulation encourage neuroinflammation, central immune dysregulation, and peripheral immunological dysregulation in AD, as well as hasten aberrant protein aggregation and neuronal death in the brain. However, it is unclear how the gut microbiota transmits information to the brain and how it influences brain cognition and function. In this review, we summarized the multiple pathways involved in the gut microbiome in AD and provided detailed treatment strategies based on the gut microbiome. Based on these observations, this review also discusses the problems, challenges, and strategies to address current therapeutic strategies.

704. Removal of extracellular human amyloid beta aggregates by extracellular proteases in C. elegans.
Abstract: The amyloid beta (Aβ) plaques found in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients' brains contain collagens and are embedded extracellularly. Several collagens have been proposed to influence Aβ aggregate formation, yet their role in clearance is unknown. To investigate the potential role of collagens in forming and clearance of extracellular aggregates in vivo, we created a transgenic Caenorhabditis elegans strain that expresses and secretes human Aβ1-42. This secreted Aβ forms aggregates in two distinct places within the extracellular matrix. In a screen for extracellular human Aβ aggregation regulators, we identified different collagens to ameliorate or potentiate Aβ aggregation. We show that a disintegrin and metalloprotease a disintegrin and metalloprotease 2 (ADM-2), an ortholog of ADAM9, reduces the load of extracellular Aβ aggregates. ADM-2 is required and sufficient to remove the extracellular Aβ aggregates. Thus, we provide in vivo evidence of collagens essential for aggregate formation and metalloprotease participating in extracellular Aβ aggregate removal.

705. Versatile lipoprotein-inspired nanocomposites rescue Alzheimer's cognitive dysfunction by promoting Aβ degradation and lessening oxidative stress.
Abstract: The accumulation of amyloid-β (Aβ) into senile plaques and the resulting continuous oxidative stress are major pathogenic mechanisms in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we designed a lipoprotein-inspired nanoparticle to facilitate Aβ clearance and alleviate oxidative stress for the treatment of AD. Lipoprotein-like nanocomposites (RLA-rHDL@ANG) were fabricated by assembling reconstituted high density lipoprotein (rHDL) with an apoE-derived peptide (RLA) with Aβ binding and clearance capabilities, and were subsequently camouflaged using reactive oxygen species (ROS)-sensitive DSPE-TK-mPEG2000 and DSPE-TK-PEG3400-ANG with brain penetration as well as ROS scavenging ability. Immunoelectron microscopy, fluorescence colocalization, and enzyme linked immunosorbent assay, together with a thioflavin-T (ThT) fluorescence quantitative test, showed that RLA-rHDL@ANG possessed the ability of high binding affinity to both Aβ monomers and oligomers, and disintegration of pre-formed Aβ aggregates. ROS level monitoring and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) showed that RLA-rHDL@ANG possessed ROS sensitivity and consumption properties. Transcellular assay and in vivo imaging showed that RLA-rHDL@ANG effectively facilitated blood-brain barrier (BBB) penetration and intracerebral accumulation. It promoted the efficient degradation of Aβ by microglia and neurons through lysosomal transport and elimination approaches. Four-week administration of RLA-rHDL@ANG effectively reduced Aβ deposition, decreased the ROS level and improved cognitive functions in AD mice. These findings indicate that multifunctional RLA-rHDL@ANG may serve as a promising and feasible candidate for managing the progression of AD.

706. Integrating Network Pharmacology and Component Analysis to Study the Potential Mechanisms of Qi-Fu-Yin Decoction in Treating Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: To elucidate the potential mechanisms of QFY for the treatment of Alzheimer's Disease (AD), and explore the effective substances of QFY.

707. Fall prevention from an Asia-Pacific regional perspective: The importance of local context.
Abstract: Abstract not available for PMID: 37726922

708. The major TMEM106B dementia risk allele affects TMEM106B protein levels, fibril formation, and myelin lipid homeostasis in the ageing human hippocampus.
Abstract: The risk for dementia increases exponentially from the seventh decade of life. Identifying and understanding the biochemical changes that sensitize the ageing brain to neurodegeneration will provide new opportunities for dementia prevention and treatment. This study aimed to determine how ageing and major genetic risk factors for dementia affect the hippocampal proteome and lipidome of neurologically-normal humans over the age of 65. The hippocampus was chosen as it is highly susceptible to atrophy with ageing and in several neurodegenerative diseases.

709. A fruit extract of Styphnolobium japonicum (L.) counteracts oxidative stress and mediates neuroprotection in Caenorhabditis elegans.
Abstract: Despite its widespread uses in Chinese and European medicine, Styphnolobium japonicum (Chinese scholar tree, formerly Sophora japonicum) has not been extensively investigated for its potential to protect against neurodegenerative processes and to promote resistance to oxidative stress. In this study, we evaluated the neuroprotective activities of a hydroalcoholic extract from Chinese scholar tree fruits that could be possibly linked to its antioxidant properties using Caenorhabditis elegans as a well-established in vivo model.

710. Regulation of the hippocampal translatome by Apoer2-ICD release.
Abstract: ApoE4, the most significant genetic risk factor for late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD), sequesters a pro-synaptogenic Reelin receptor, Apoer2, in the endosomal compartment and prevents its normal recycling. In the adult brain, Reelin potentiates excitatory synapses and thereby protects against amyloid-β toxicity. Recently, a gain-of-function mutation in Reelin that is protective against early-onset AD has been described. Alternative splicing of the Apoer2 intracellular domain (Apoer2-ICD) regulates Apoer2 signaling. Splicing of juxtamembraneous exon 16 alters the γ-secretase mediated release of the Apoer2-ICD as well as synapse number and LTP, and inclusion of exon 19 ameliorates behavioral deficits in an AD mouse model. The Apoer2-ICD has also been shown to alter transcription of synaptic genes. However, the role of Apoer2-ICD release upon transcriptional regulation and its role in AD pathogenesis is unknown.

711. Influence of complement protein C1q or complement receptor C5aR1 on gut microbiota composition in wildtype and Alzheimer's mouse models.
Abstract: The contribution of the gut microbiome to neuroinflammation, cognition, and Alzheimer's disease progression has been highlighted over the past few years. Additionally, inhibition of various components of the complement system has repeatedly been demonstrated to reduce neuroinflammation and improve cognitive performance in AD mouse models. Whether the deletion of these complement components is associated with distinct microbiome composition, which could impact neuroinflammation and cognitive performance in mouse models has not yet been examined. Here, we provide a comprehensive analysis of conditional and constitutive knockouts, pharmacological inhibitors, and various housing paradigms for the animal models and wild-type controls at various ages. We aimed to determine the impact of C1q or C5aR1 inhibition on the microbiome in the Arctic and Tg2576 mouse models of AD, which develop amyloid plaques at different ages and locations. Analysis of fecal samples from WT and Arctic mice following global deletion of C1q demonstrated significant alterations to the microbiomes of Arctic but not WT mice, with substantial differences in abundances of Erysipelotrichales, Clostridiales and Alistipes. While no differences in microbiome diversity were detected between cohoused wildtype and Arctic mice with or without the constitutive deletion of the downstream complement receptor, C5aR1, a difference was detected between the C5aR1 sufficient (WT and Arctic) and deficient (C5ar1KO and ArcticC5aR1KO) mice, when the mice were housed segregated by C5aR1 genotype. However, cohousing of C5aR1 sufficient and deficient wildtype and Arctic mice resulted in a convergence of the microbiomes and equalized abundances of each identified order and genus across all genotypes. Similarly, pharmacologic treatment with the C5aR1 antagonist, PMX205, beginning at the onset of beta-amyloid plaque deposition in the Arctic and Tg2576 mice, demonstrated no impact of C5aR1 inhibition on the microbiome. This study demonstrates the importance of C1q in microbiota homeostasis in neurodegenerative disease. In addition, while demonstrating that constitutive deletion of C5aR1 can significantly alter the composition of the fecal microbiome, these differences are not present when C5aR1-deficient mice are cohoused with C5aR1-sufficient animals with or without the AD phenotype and suggests limited if any contribution of the microbiome to the previously observed prevention of cognitive and neuronal loss in the C5aR1-deficient AD models.

712. The association of arsenic exposure with mortality due to cancer, diabetes, Alzheimer's and congenital anomalies using Poisson regression.
Abstract: The present study aims to determine the relationship between the concentration of arsenic in the groundwater of Hamadan province and the mortality rate due to various types of malignancies, congenital anomalies, diabetes mellitus and Alzheimer's. Mortality data due to various causes of death in Hamadan province were collected for five years (2016-2020). Sampling of drinking water was determined in the reference laboratory using polarography method. Poisson regression was used to investigate the relationship between arsenic level and the death rate due to various types of disease, at a significant level (p value < 0.05). According to the results of Poisson regression, among the various causes of death (N = 8042), Alzheimer's 5.94 (3.67-9.61), diabetes mellitus 4.05 (3.5-5.37), congenital malformations 2.98 (1.88-4.72), breast cancer 2.72 (1.56-4.71), leukemia 1.90 (1.24-2.92), stomach cancer 1.64 (1.28-2.10), Liver cancer 1.58 (1.58-2.30), other digestive organs 5.86 (3.38-10.16), meninges and brain cancer 1.57 (1.02-2.41) showed the highest relationship with arsenic contamination. The results of this study could be evidence for a positive and significant relationship between arsenic concentrations and mortality rates due to cancers, diabetes mellitus, Alzheimer disease, and congenital malformations. Therefore, it's necessary to use appropriate water treatment methods to remove arsenic at the source in contaminated areas.

713. Alzheimer Disease Biomarkers: Moving from CSF to Plasma for Reliable Detection of Amyloid and tau Pathology.
Abstract: Development of validated biomarkers to detect early Alzheimer disease (AD) neuropathology is needed for therapeutic AD trials. Abnormal concentrations of "core" AD biomarkers, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) amyloid beta1-42, total tau, and phosphorylated tau correlate well with neuroimaging biomarkers and autopsy findings. Nevertheless, given the limitations of established CSF and neuroimaging biomarkers, accelerated development of blood-based AD biomarkers is underway.

714. Harnessing role of sesamol and its nanoformulations against neurodegenerative diseases.
Abstract: Sesamol is a lignan of sesame seeds and a natural phenolic molecule that has emerged as a useful medical agent. Sesamol is a non-toxic phytoconstituent, which exerts certain valuable effects in the management of cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, neurodegenerative diseases (NDs), etc. Sesamol is known to depict its neuroprotective role by various mechanisms, such as metabolic regulators, action on oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, etc. However, its poor oral bioavailability, rapid excretion (as conjugates), and susceptibility to gastric irritation/toxicity (particularly in rats' forestomach) may restrict its effectiveness. To overcome the associated limitations, novel drug delivery system-based formulations of sesamol are emerging and being researched extensively. These can conjugate with sesamol and enhance the bioavailability and solubility of free sesamol, along with delivery at the target site. In this review, we have summarized various research works highlighting the role of sesamol on various NDs, including Alzheimer's disease, Huntington's disease, Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and Parkinson's disease. Moreover, the formulation strategies and neuroprotective role of sesamol-based nano-formulations have also been discussed.

715. Sequencing and analysis of micro RNAs in camel milk exosomes.
Abstract: In order to study the species and functions of micro (mi)RNAs in the exosomes of camel milk, non-coding small (s)RNAs were sequenced and identified by Illumina sequencing technology, and the miRNA fraction was analysed by bioinformatics. After quality control, the average length of sRNA of camel milk exosomes was 18-24 nucleotides. A total of 2,659 miRNAs were identified, including 2,458 known, and 201 new miRNAs. Among the known miRNAs, miR-148a and let-7i had the highest expression levels. The results of gene ontology enrichment analysis indicated that the target genes of camel milk exosome miRNAs were involved in multicellular organismal, catabolic and other biological processes. They play role in the extracellular region, in the cytoskeleton and other cell components, in protein binding, but also have structural molecule activity and other molecular functions. According to the results of the Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes pathway enrichment analysis, the target genes of camel milk exosome miRNAs are involved in Alzheimer's disease, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, Staphylococcus aureus infection and other pathological pathways. We speculate that the reported beneficial effect of camel milk in various pathologic conditions may be closely related to the regulatory function of the exosomal miRNAs exerted on target genes of the diseases.

716. Oxytosis/Ferroptosis in Neurodegeneration: the Underlying Role of Master Regulator Glutathione Peroxidase 4 (GPX4).
Abstract: Oxytosis/ferroptosis is an iron-dependent oxidative form of cell death triggered by lethal accumulation of phospholipid hydroperoxides (PLOOHs) in membranes. Failure of the intricate PLOOH repair system is a principle cause of ferroptotic cell death. Glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) is distinctly vital for converting PLOOHs in membranes to non-toxic alcohols. As such, GPX4 is known as the master regulator of oxytosis/ferroptosis. Ferroptosis has been implicated in a number of disorders such as neurodegenerative diseases (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and Huntington's disease (HD), etc.), ischemia/reperfusion injury, and kidney degeneration. Reduced function of GPX4 is frequently observed in degenerative disorders. In this study, we examine how diminished GPX4 function may be a critical event in triggering oxytosis/ferroptosis to perpetuate or initiate the neurodegenerative diseases and assess the possible therapeutic importance of oxytosis/ferroptosis in neurodegenerative disorders. These discoveries are important for advancing our understanding of neurodegenerative diseases because oxytosis/ferroptosis may provide a new target to slow the course of the disease.

717. Pathophysiological Aspects and Therapeutic Armamentarium of Alzheimer's Disease: Recent Trends and Future Development.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the primary cause of dementia and is characterized by the death of brain cells due to the accumulation of insoluble amyloid plaques, hyperphosphorylation of tau protein, and the formation of neurofibrillary tangles within the cells. AD is also associated with other pathologies such as neuroinflammation, dysfunction of synaptic connections and circuits, disorders in mitochondrial function and energy production, epigenetic changes, and abnormalities in the vascular system. Despite extensive research conducted over the last hundred years, little is established about what causes AD or how to effectively treat it. Given the severity of the disease and the increasing number of affected individuals, there is a critical need to discover effective medications for AD. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved several new drug molecules for AD management since 2003, but these drugs only provide temporary relief of symptoms and do not address the underlying causes of the disease. Currently, available medications focus on correcting the neurotransmitter disruption observed in AD, including cholinesterase inhibitors and an antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, which temporarily alleviates the signs of dementia but does not prevent or reverse the course of AD. Research towards disease-modifying AD treatments is currently underway, including gene therapy, lipid nanoparticles, and dendrimer-based therapy. These innovative approaches aim to target the underlying pathological processes of AD rather than just managing the symptoms. This review discusses the novel aspects of pathogenesis involved in the causation of AD of AD and in recent developments in the therapeutic armamentarium for the treatment of AD such as gene therapy, lipid nanoparticles, and dendrimer-based therapy, and many more.

718. Co-pathology may impact outcomes of amyloid-targeting treatments: clinicopathological results from two patients treated with aducanumab.
Abstract: Abstract not available for PMID: 37725166

719. Role of NLRP3 inflammasome-mediated neuronal pyroptosis and neuroinflammation in neurodegenerative diseases.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative diseases are a common group of neurological disorders characterized by progressive loss of neuronal structure and function leading to cognitive impairment. Recent studies have shown that neuronal pyroptosis mediated by the NLRP3 inflammasome plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases.

720. If deprivation worsens dementia outcomes, stimulation should improve them.
Abstract: It is still not known what causes Alzheimer's Disease (AD). In this period of uncertainty, an emerging literature on risk factors suggests that the concept of "stimulation" is a useful pragmatic tool both before and after diagnosis to improve cognitive health. Before diagnosis of AD, stimulation of the brain through education, exercise, and social stimulation provides fortification against later cognitive decline. After diagnosis, specific electrical stimulation of brain circuits may protect cognitive function, and non-specific stimulation through different kinds of environmental enrichment may help to compensate for cognitive decline. Pragmatic guidelines are offered here to maximise enabling stimulation (physical, cognitive, and social activity) and minimise disabling stimulation across the lifetime (e.g. stress, pollution, and poor diet). However, much deeper structural changes in society are needed to struggle against socioeconomic and environmental deprivation and the inaccessibility of education for women across the globe.

721. Neuroimaging in Dementia: More than Typical Alzheimer Disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia. The prevailing theory of the underlying pathology assumes amyloid accumulation followed by tau protein aggregation and neurodegeneration. However, the current antiamyloid and antitau treatments show only variable clinical efficacy. Three relevant points are important for the radiologic assessment of dementia. First, besides various dementing disorders (including AD, frontotemporal dementia, and dementia with Lewy bodies), clinical variants and imaging subtypes of AD include both typical and atypical AD. Second, atypical AD has overlapping radiologic and clinical findings with other disorders. Third, the diagnostic process should consider mixed pathologies in neurodegeneration, especially concurrent cerebrovascular disease, which is frequent in older age. Neuronal loss is often present at, or even before, the onset of cognitive decline. Thus, for effective emerging treatments, early diagnosis before the onset of clinical symptoms is essential to slow down or stop subsequent neuronal loss, requiring molecular imaging or plasma biomarkers. Neuroimaging, particularly MRI, provides multiple imaging parameters for neurodegenerative and cerebrovascular disease. With emerging treatments for AD, it is increasingly important to recognize AD variants and other disorders that mimic AD. Describing the individual composition of neurodegenerative and cerebrovascular disease markers while considering overlapping and mixed diseases is necessary to better understand AD and develop efficient individualized therapies.

722. Analyzing the glial proteome in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive cognitive decline, memory loss, and changes in behavior. Accumulating evidence indicates that dysfunction of glial cells, including astrocytes, microglia, and oligodendrocytes, may contribute to the development and progression of AD. Large-scale analysis of glial proteins sheds light on their roles in cellular processes and diseases. In AD, glial proteomics has been utilized to understand glia-based pathophysiology and identify potential biomarkers and therapeutic targets.

723. Fluid Resuscitation in Patients With Traumatic Brain Injury: A Comprehensive Review.
Abstract: Patients with traumatic brain injury (TBI) or head trauma present challenges for emergency physicians and neurosurgeons. Traumatic brain injury is currently a community health issue. For the best possible care, it is crucial to understand the various helpful therapy techniques in the pre-operative and pre-hospital phases. The initial rapid infusion of large volumes of mannitol and a hypertonic crystalloid solution to restore blood pressure and blood volume is the current standard of care for people with combined hemorrhagic shock (HS) and traumatic brain injury. The selection and administration of fluids to trauma and traumatic brain injury patients may be especially helpful in preventing subsequent ischemic brain damage because of the hemodynamic stabilizing effects of these fluids in hypovolemic shock. Traumatic brain injury is an essential factor that may lead to disability and death in a patient. Traumatic brain damage can develop either as a direct result of the trauma or as a result of the initial harm. Significant neurologic problems, such as cranial nerve damage, dementia, seizures, and Alzheimer's disease, can develop after a traumatic brain injury. The comorbidity of the victims may also be significantly increased by additional psychiatric problems such as psychological diseases and other behavioral and cognitive sequels. We review the history of modern fluid therapy, complications after traumatic brain injury, and the use of fluid treatment for decompressive craniectomy and traumatic brain injury.

724. Design, synthesis, biological activities, and evaluation of molecular docking-dynamics studies of new thiosemicarbazones that may be effective against Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Donepezil is one of the most used drugs in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Its activity as an AChE inhibitor makes new studies with these enzyme inhibitors attractive. For this purpose, in this study, 12 compounds including thiosemicarbazone pharmacophore, have been synthesized for the treatment of the Alzheimer's disease. 3,4-Dimethoxybenzene or 1,3-benzodioxolone rings were used for the PAS region. The substituted piperazine benzene structure is preferred for the CAS region. At the same time, the thiosemicarbazone pharmacophore structure with known ChE enzyme inhibition potential was used as a bridge connecting the CAS and PAS regions. Structure determination of compounds 3a-3l were revealed using 13 C-NMR, 1 H-NMR, and HRMS spectroscopic methods. The inhibition profile of obtained compounds (3a-3l) against ChE was evaluated using in vitro modified Ellman method. Compounds 3a, 3b, 3f, 3g and 3i exhibited inhibitory activity against the AChE enzyme. Compound 3a showed the highest inhibitory potential with an IC50  = 0.030 ± 0.001 μM. As a result of molecular docking studies, compound 3a displayed important interactions compared to other active derivatives. Molecular dynamics studies are important to see the stability of the complex formed by ligand and protein. RMSD, RMSF ang Rg parameters were calculated via dynamic studies. In conclusion, compound 3a may be a potential AChE enzyme inhibitor with its strong inhibitory potential and behavior in silico.

725. In silico identification of novel heterocyclic compounds combats Alzheimer's disease through inhibition of butyrylcholinesterase enzymatic activity.
Abstract: Increasing evidence indicates that heterocyclic molecules possess properties against butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) enzymatic activity, which is a potential therapeutic target for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Thus, this study aimed to further evaluate the relationship between heterocyclic molecules and their biological activities. A dataset of 38 selective and potent heterocyclic compounds (-log[the half‑maximal inhibitory concentration (pIC50)]) values ranging from 8.02 to 10.05) was applied to construct a quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) study, including Bayesian model average (BMA), artificial neural network (ANN), multiple nonlinear regression (MNLR), and multiple linear regression (MLR) models. Four models met statistical acceptance in internal and external validation. The ANN model was superior to other models in predicting the pIC50 of the outcome. The descriptors put into the models were found to be comparable with the target-ligand complex X-ray structures, making these models interpretable. Three selected molecules possess drug-like properties (pIC50 values ranged from 9.19 to 9.54). The docking score between candidates and the BChE receptor (RCSB ID 6EYF) ranged from -8.4 to -9.0 kcal/mol. Remarkably, the pharmacokinetics, biological activities, molecular dynamics, and physicochemical properties of compound 18 (C20H22N4O, pIC50 value = 9.33, oxadiazole derivative group) support its protective effects on AD treatment due to its non-toxic nature, non-carcinogen, cholinergic nature, capability to penetrate the blood-brain barrier, and high gastrointestinal absorption.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.

726. Side effects based network construction and drug repositioning of ropinirole as a potential molecule for Alzheimer's disease: an in-silico, in-vitro, and in-vivo study.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia in older adults. Drug repositioning is a process of finding new therapeutic applications for existing drugs. One of the methods in drug repositioning is to use the side-effect profile of a drug to identify a new therapeutic indication. The drugs with similar side-effects may act on similar biological targets and could affect the same biochemical process. In this study, we explored the Food and Drug Administration-approved drugs using PROMISCUOUS database to find those that have adverse effects profile comparable with the ligands being studied or used to treat AD. Here, we found that the ropinirole, a dopamine receptor agonist, shared a maximum number of side-effects with the drugs proven beneficial for treating AD. Furthermore, molecular modelling demonstrated that ropinirole exhibited strong binding affinity (-9.313 kcal/mol) and best ligand efficiency (0.49) with sigma-1 receptor. Here, we observed that the quaternary amino group of ropinirole is essential for binding with sigma-1 receptor. Molecular dynamic simulation indicated that the movement of the carboxy-terminal helices (α4/α5) could play a major role in the receptor's physiological functions. The neurotoxicity induced by Aβ25-35 in SH-SY5Y cells was reduced by ropinirole at concentrations 10, 30, and 50 µM. The effect on spatial learning and memory was examined in mice with Aβ25-35 induced memory deficit using the radial arm maze. Ropinirole (10 and 20 mg/kg) significantly improved the short and long-term memories in the radial arm maze test. Our results suggest that ropinirole has the potential to be repositioned for AD treatment.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.

727. Evolving prion-like tau conformers differentially alter postsynaptic proteins in neurons inoculated with distinct isolates of Alzheimer's disease tau.
Abstract: Although accumulation of misfolded tau species has been shown to predict cognitive decline in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and other tauopathies but with the remarkable diversity of clinical manifestations, neuropathology profiles, and time courses of disease progression remaining unexplained by current genetic data. We considered the diversity of misfolded tau conformers present in individual AD cases as an underlying driver of the phenotypic variations of AD and progressive loss of synapses.

728. SIMOA-based analysis of plasma NFL levels in MCI and AD patients: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
Abstract: The single-molecule array assay (SIMOA)-based detection of neurofilament light (NFL) chain could be useful in diagnosing mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). This meta-analysis aimed to evaluate the circulating concentration of NFL in AD and MCI patients compared with healthy controls using the SIMOA technique.

729. The role of plasma neurofilament light chain and glial fibrillary acidic protein in subjective cognitive decline and mild cognitive impairment.
Abstract: NfL and GFAP are promising blood-based biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease. However, few studies have explored plasma GFAP in the prodromal and preclinical stages of AD. In our cross-sectional study, our aim is to investigate the role of these biomarkers in the earliest stages of AD.

730. Subjective cognitive decline exhibits alterations of resting-state phase-amplitude coupling in precuneus.
Abstract: Subjective cognitive decline (SCD) is associated with increased risks for progressing to Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study aimed to investigate phase-amplitude coupling (PAC) in individuals with SCD and healthy controls (HCs) in the baseline year and determined the predictability of cognitive changes in the clinical follow-up.

731. A circadian rhythm-restricted diet regulates autophagy to improve cognitive function and prolong lifespan.
Abstract: Diet and circadian rhythms have been found to have a profound impact on health, disease, and aging. Skipping breakfast, eating late, and overeating have adverse effects on the body's metabolism and increase the risk of cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. Disturbance of circadian rhythms has been associated with increased risk of atherosclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and other diseases. Abnormal deposition of amyloid β (Aβ) and tau proteins in the brain and impaired synaptic function are linked to cognitive dysfunction. A restrictive diet following the circadian rhythm can affect the metabolism of lipids, glucose, and amino acids such as branched chain amino acids and cysteine. These metabolic changes contribute to autophagy through molecular mechanisms such as adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK), rapamycin (mTOR), D-β-hydroxybutyrate (D-BHB), and neuropeptide Y (NPY). Autophagy, in turn, promotes the removal of abnormally deposited proteins and damaged organelles and improves cognitive function, ultimately prolonging lifespan. In addition, a diet restricted to the circadian rhythm induces increased expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the forebrain region, regulating autophagy and increasing synaptic plasticity, thus enhancing cognitive function. Consequently, circadian rhythm-restricted diets could serve as a promising non-pharmacological treatment for preventing and improving cognitive dysfunction and prolonging lifespan.

732. Predicting brain age gap with radiomics and automl: A Promising approach for age-Related brain degeneration biomarkers.
Abstract: The Brain Age Gap (BAG), which refers to the difference between chronological age and predicted neuroimaging age, is proposed as a potential biomarker for age-related brain degeneration. However, existing brain age prediction models usually rely on a single marker and can not discover meaningful hidden information in radiographic images. This study focuses on the application of radiomics, an advanced imaging analysis technique, combined with automated machine learning to predict BAG. Our methods achieve a promising result with a mean absolute error of 1.509 using the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative dataset. Furthermore, we find that the hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus play a significant role in predicting age with interpretable method called SHapley Additive exPlanations. Additionally, our investigation of age prediction discrepancies between patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and those with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) reveals a notable correlation with clinical cognitive assessment scale scores. This suggests that BAG has the potential to serve as a biomarker to support the diagnosis of AD and MCI. Overall, this study presents valuable insights into the application of neuroimaging models in the diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases.

733. Targeting protein kinases for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease: Recent progress and future perspectives.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a serious neurodegenerative disease characterized by memory impairment, mental retardation, impaired motor balance, loss of self-care and even death. Among the complex and diverse pathological changes in AD, protein kinases are deeply involved in abnormal phosphorylation of Tau proteins to form intracellular neuronal fiber tangles, neuronal loss, extracellular β-amyloid (Aβ) deposits to form amyloid plaques, and synaptic disturbances. As a disease of the elderly, the growing geriatric population is directly driving the market demand for AD therapeutics, and protein kinases are potential targets for the future fight against AD. This perspective provides an in-depth look at the role of the major protein kinases (GSK-3β, CDK5, p38 MAPK, ERK1/2, and JNK3) in the pathogenesis of AD. At the same time, the development of different protein kinase inhibitors and the current state of clinical advancement are also outlined.

734. A Flexible Bivalent Approach to Comprehensively Improve the Performances of Stilbazolium Dyes as Amyloid-β Fluorescent Probes.
Abstract: Exploring new ways to reconstruct the structure and function of inappropriate organic fluorophores for improving amyloid-β (Aβ) fluorescent imaging performance is desired for precise detection and early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). With stilbazolium dyes as examples, here, we present a multipronged approach to comprehensively improved the Aβ fluorescent imaging performance through a flexible bivalent method, where a flexible carbon chain was introduced to link two monomers to form a homodimer. Our results reveal a mechanism wherein the flexible linker creates a well-defined probe with specific orientations and distinct photophysical properties. Applying this approach in combination with theoretical simulation, the homodimers exhibited a comprehensive improvement of the Aβ fluorescent imaging performance of the dye monomers, including better photostability and higher signal-to-noise (S/N) ratio, higher "off-on" near-infrared fluorescence (NIRF) response sensitivity, higher specificity and affinity to Aβ deposits, and more reasonable lipophilicity for blood-brain barrier (BBB) penetrability. The results demonstrate that flexible homodimers offer a multipronged approach to obtaining high-performance NIRF imaging reagents for the detection of Aβ deposits both in vitro and in vivo.

735. Outcomes in Patients With Poststroke Seizures: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis.
Abstract: Published data about the impact of poststroke seizures (PSSs) on the outcomes of patients with stroke are inconsistent and have not been systematically evaluated, to the authors' knowledge.

736. Development of lactoferrin-coated multifunctional copolymer micelles to cross the blood-brain barrier.
Abstract: The blood-brain barrier (BBB) prevents pathogens and toxins in the bloodstream from reaching the brain, but also inhibits the delivery of agents intended to treat central nervous system disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we prepared and evaluated a novel nano-delivery vehicle system composed of lactoferrin-conjugated (Lf-PIC@Se) micelles. We used a COOH-PEG-PAsp-PV@Se synthesis-based method to prepare the micelles, which involved self-assembly followed by EDC-NHS coupling. Using glutaminyl cyclase inhibitor 8 as a model encapsulated chemical, Lf-PIC@Se micelles achieved a good loading capacity. In vitro analysis demonstrated that Lf-PIC@Se/8 micelles were stable in both neutral and acidic pH solutions in the presence or absence of H2O2, and confirmed their biosafety and compatibility in PC12 and bEND.3 cells. Notably, the cell uptake of Lf-PIC@Se/C6 micelles was much higher than that of PIC@Se micelles, and occurred through LfR-mediated endocytosis. The presence of Se meant that Lf-PIC@Se micelles acted as ROS scavengers in PC12 cells under H2O2-induced oxidative stress, which inhibited oxidative damage and increased mitochondrial membrane potential. Hemolysis assays further demonstrated that Lf-PIC@Se represent a biocompatible carrier. Finally, in vivo experiments in mice suggested that Lf-PIC@Se micelles successfully crossed the BBB, confirming their potential as vehicles for drug delivery when treating AD and other central nervous system disorders.

737. Is headache a risk factor for dementia? A systematic review and meta-analysis.
Abstract: In this systematic review and meta-analysis, we critically evaluate available evidence regarding the association between primary headaches and subsequent decline of cognitive function and dementia.

738. Mechanisms of phototherapy of Alzheimer's disease during sleep and wakefulness: the role of the meningeal lymphatics.
Abstract: With the increase in the aging population, the global number of people with Alzheimer's disease (AD) progressively increased worldwide. The situation is aggravated by the fact that there is no the effective pharmacological therapy of AD. Photobiomodulation (PBM) is non-pharmacological approach that has shown very promising results in the therapy of AD in pilot clinical and animal studies. However, the mechanisms of therapeutic effects of PBM for AD are poorly understood. In this study on mice, we demonstrate that photodynamic effects of 5-aminolevulenic acid and laser 635 nm cause reduction of network of the meningeal lymphatic vessels (MLVs) leading to suppression of lymphatic removal of beta-amyloid (Aβ) from the right lateral ventricle and the hippocampus. Using the original protocol of PBM under electroencephalographic monitoring of wakefulness and sleep stages in non-anesthetized mice, we discover that the 7-day course of PBM during deep sleep vs. wakefulness provides better restoration of clearance of Aβ from the ventricular system of the brain and the hippocampus. Our results shed light on the mechanism of PBM and show the stimulating effects of PBM on the brain lymphatic drainage that promotes transport of Aβ via the lymphatic pathway. The effects of PBM on the brain lymphatics in sleeping brain open a new niche in the study of restorative functions of sleep as well as it is an important informative platform for the development of innovative smart sleep technologies for the therapy of AD.

739. A Photolabile Curcumin-Diazirine Analogue Enables Phototherapy with Physically and Molecularly Produced Light for Alzheimer's Disease Treatment.
Abstract: The development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) drugs has recently witnessed substantial achievement. To further enhance the pool of drug candidates, it is crucial to explore non-traditional therapeutic avenues. In this study, we present the use of a photolabile curcumin-diazirine analogue, CRANAD-147, to induce changes in properties, structures (sequences), and neurotoxicity of amyloid beta (Aβ) species both in cells and in vivo. This manipulation was achieved through irradiation with LED light or molecularly generated light, dubbed as "molecular light", emitted by the chemiluminescence probe ADLumin-4. Next, aided by molecular chemiluminescence imaging, we demonstrated that the combination of CRANAD-147/LED or CRANAD-147/ADLumin-4 (molecular light) could effectively slow down the accumulation of Aβs in transgenic 5xFAD mice in vivo. Leveraging the remarkable tissue penetration capacity of molecular light, phototherapy employing the synergistic effect of a photolabile Aβ ligand and molecular light emerges as a promising alternative to conventional AD treatment interventions.

740. mTOR signaling and Alzheimer's disease: What we know and where we are?
Abstract: Despite the great body of research done on Alzheimer's disease, the underlying mechanisms have not been vividly investigated. To date, the accumulation of amyloid-beta plaques and tau tangles constitutes the hallmark of the disease; however, dysregulation of the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) seems to be significantly involved in the pathogenesis of the disease as well. mTOR, as a serine-threonine protein kinase, was previously known for controlling many cellular functions such as cell size, autophagy, and metabolism. In this regard, mammalian target of rapamycin complex 1 (mTORC1) may leave anti-aging impacts by robustly inhibiting autophagy, a mechanism that inhibits the accumulation of damaged protein aggregate and dysfunctional organelles. Formation and aggregation of neurofibrillary tangles and amyloid-beta plaques seem to be significantly regulated by mTOR signaling. Understanding the underlying mechanisms and connection between mTOR signaling and AD may suggest conducting clinical trials assessing the efficacy of rapamycin, as an mTOR inhibitor drug, in managing AD or may help develop other medications. In this literature review, we aim to elaborate mTOR signaling network mainly in the brain, point to gaps of knowledge, and define how and in which ways mTOR signaling can be connected with AD pathogenesis and symptoms.

741. Neural stem cells promote neuroplasticity: a promising therapeutic strategy for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Recent studies have demonstrated that neuroplasticity, such as synaptic plasticity and neurogenesis, exists throughout the normal lifespan but declines with age and is significantly impaired in individuals with Alzheimer's disease. Hence, promoting neuroplasticity may represent an effective strategy with which Alzheimer's disease can be alleviated. Due to their significant ability to self-renew, differentiate, and migrate, neural stem cells play an essential role in reversing synaptic and neuronal damage, reducing the pathology of Alzheimer's disease, including amyloid-β, tau protein, and neuroinflammation, and secreting neurotrophic factors and growth factors that are related to plasticity. These events can promote synaptic plasticity and neurogenesis to repair the microenvironment of the mammalian brain. Consequently, neural stem cells are considered to represent a potential regenerative therapy with which to improve Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative diseases. In this review, we discuss how neural stem cells regulate neuroplasticity and optimize their effects to enhance their potential for treating Alzheimer's disease in the clinic.

742. Polyoxidovanadates a new therapeutic alternative for neurodegenerative and aging diseases.
Abstract: Aging is a natural phenomenon characterized by a progressive decline in physiological integrity, leading to a deterioration of cognitive function and increasing the risk of suffering from chronic-degenerative diseases, including cardiovascular diseases, osteoporosis, cancer, diabetes, and neurodegeneration. Aging is considered the major risk factor for Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease develops. Likewise, diabetes and insulin resistance constitute additional risk factors for developing neurodegenerative disorders. Currently, no treatment can effectively reverse these neurodegenerative pathologies. However, some antidiabetic drugs have opened the possibility of being used against neurodegenerative processes. In the previous framework, Vanadium species have demonstrated a notable antidiabetic effect. Our research group evaluated polyoxidovanadates such as decavanadate and metforminium-decavanadate with preventive and corrective activity on neurodegeneration in brain-specific areas from rats with metabolic syndrome. The results suggest that these polyoxidovanadates induce neuronal and cognitive restoration mechanisms. This review aims to describe the therapeutic potential of polyoxidovanadates as insulin-enhancer agents in the brain, constituting a therapeutic alternative for aging and neurodegenerative diseases.

743. Soluble p75 neurotrophic receptor as a reliable biomarker in neurodegenerative diseases: what is the evidence?
Abstract: Neurodegenerative diseases are often misdiagnosed, especially when the diagnosis is based solely on clinical symptoms. The p75 neurotrophic receptor (p75NTR) has been studied as an index of sensory and motor nerve development and maturation. Its cleavable extracellular domain (ECD) is readily detectable in various biological fluids including plasma, serum and urine. There is evidence for increased p75NTR ECD levels in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, age-related dementia, schizophrenia, and diabetic neuropathy. Whether p75NTR ECD could be used as a biomarker for diagnosis and/or prognosis in these disorders, and whether it could potentially lead to the development of targeted therapies, remains an open question. In this review, we present and discuss published studies that have evaluated the relevance of this emerging biomarker in the context of various neurodegenerative diseases. We also highlight areas that require further investigation to better understand the role of p75NTR ECD in the clinical diagnosis and management of neurodegenerative disorders.

744. Role of CD36 in central nervous system diseases.
Abstract: CD36 is a highly glycosylated integral membrane protein that belongs to the scavenger receptor class B family and regulates the pathological progress of metabolic diseases. CD36 was recently found to be widely expressed in various cell types in the nervous system, including endothelial cells, pericytes, astrocytes, and microglia. CD36 mediates a number of regulatory processes, such as endothelial dysfunction, oxidative stress, mitochondrial dysfunction, and inflammatory responses, which are involved in many central nervous system diseases, such as stroke, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and spinal cord injury. CD36 antagonists can suppress CD36 expression or prevent CD36 binding to its ligand, thereby achieving inhibition of CD36-mediated pathways or functions. Here, we reviewed the mechanisms of action of CD36 antagonists, such as Salvianolic acid B, tanshinone IIA, curcumin, sulfosuccinimidyl oleate, antioxidants, and small-molecule compounds. Moreover, we predicted the structures of binding sites between CD36 and antagonists. These sites can provide targets for more efficient and safer CD36 antagonists for the treatment of central nervous system diseases.

745. Targeting calcium signaling in Alzheimer's disease: challenges and promising therapeutic avenues.
Abstract: Abstract not available for PMID: 37721273

746. Current emerging novel therapies for Alzheimer's disease and the future prospects of magneto-mechanical force therapy.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disease among the elderly, and the morbidity increases with the aging population aggravation. The clinical symptoms of AD mainly include cognitive impairment and memory loss, which undoubtedly bring a huge burden to families and society. Currently, the drugs in clinical use only improve the symptoms of AD but do not cure or prevent the progression of the disease. Therefore, it is urgent for us to develop novel therapeutic strategies for effective AD treatment. To provide a better theoretical basis for exploring novel therapeutic strategies in future AD treatment, this review introduces the recent AD treatment technologies from three aspects, including nanoparticle (NP) based drug therapy, biological therapy and physical therapy. The nanoparticle-mediated therapeutic approaches at the nanomaterial-neural interface and biological system are described in detail, and in particular the magneto-regulated strategies by magnetic field actuating magnetic nanoparticles are highlighted. Promising application of magneto-mechanical force regulated strategy in future AD treatment is also addressed, which offer possibilities for the remote manipulation in a precise manner. In the future, it may be possible for physicians to realize a remote, precise and effective therapy for AD using magneto-mechanical force regulated technology based on the combination of magnetic nanoparticles and an external magnetic field.

747. Executive function deficits and medial temporal lobe atrophy in late-life depression and Alzheimer's disease: a comparative study.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) and late-life depression (LLD) frequently exhibit executive function deficits (EFD) and medial temporal lobe atrophy (MTA) as shared characteristics. The objective of this research was to examine the utility of the Trail Making Test (TMT) and the MTA scale in distinguishing between LLD and AD.

748. Engineered rare-earth nanomaterials for fluorescence imaging and therapy.
Abstract: Early diagnosis and treatment are of great significance for hindering the progression of brain disease. The limited effects of available treatments and poor prognosis are currently the most pressing problems faced by clinicians and their patients. Therefore, developing new diagnosis and treatment programs for brain diseases is urgently needed. Near-infrared (NIR)-light-responsive, lanthanide-doped upconversion nanoparticles (UCNPs) provide great advantages both in diagnosis and therapy. Hence, we synthesised nanoparticles comprised of a UCNPs core with surface functionalization. UCNPs@Au was used for NIR fluorescence imaging in the brain and inhibiting the growth of mouse glioma 261 (GL261) cells depending on photothermal properties. In addition, a UCNPs core and a mesoporous silica layer as the outer shell with a tannic acid-Al3+ ions (TA-Al) complex as a "gatekeeper" were used for pH-triggered doxorubicin/small interfering ribonucleic acid delivery in vitro. Based on our preliminary results, we expect to develop more multifunctional nanoscale diagnostic and therapeutic agents based on UCNPs for the diagnosis and treatment of brain diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and brain tumours.

749. Novel Lawsone-Quinoxaline Hybrids as New Dual Binding Site Acetylcholinesterase Inhibitors.
Abstract: A new family of lawsone-quinoxaline hybrids was designed, synthesized, and evaluated as dual binding site cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEIs). In vitro tests revealed that compound 6d was the most potent AChEI (IC50 = 20 nM) and BChEI (IC50 = 220 nM). The compound 6d did not show cytotoxicity against the SH-SY5Y neuronal cells (GI50 > 100 μM). In silico and enzyme kinetic experiments demonstrated that compound 6d bound to both the catalytic anionic site and the peripheral anionic site of HuAChE. The lawsone-quinoxaline hybrids exhibited potential for further development of potent acetylcholinesterase inhibitors for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

750. Phase separation and pathologic transitions of RNP condensates in neurons: implications for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, frontotemporal dementia and other neurodegenerative disorders.
Abstract: Liquid-liquid phase separation results in the formation of dynamic biomolecular condensates, also known as membrane-less organelles, that allow for the assembly of functional compartments and higher order structures within cells. Multivalent, reversible interactions between RNA-binding proteins (RBPs), including FUS, TDP-43, and hnRNPA1, and/or RNA (e.g., RBP-RBP, RBP-RNA, RNA-RNA), result in the formation of ribonucleoprotein (RNP) condensates, which are critical for RNA processing, mRNA transport, stability, stress granule assembly, and translation. Stress granules, neuronal transport granules, and processing bodies are examples of cytoplasmic RNP condensates, while the nucleolus and Cajal bodies are representative nuclear RNP condensates. In neurons, RNP condensates promote long-range mRNA transport and local translation in the dendrites and axon, and are essential for spatiotemporal regulation of gene expression, axonal integrity and synaptic function. Mutations of RBPs and/or pathologic mislocalization and aggregation of RBPs are hallmarks of several neurodegenerative diseases, including amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), frontotemporal dementia (FTD), and Alzheimer's disease. ALS/FTD-linked mutations of RBPs alter the strength and reversibility of multivalent interactions with other RBPs and RNAs, resulting in aberrant phase transitions. These aberrant RNP condensates have detrimental functional consequences on mRNA stability, localization, and translation, and ultimately lead to compromised axonal integrity and synaptic function in disease. Pathogenic protein aggregation is dependent on various factors, and aberrant dynamically arrested RNP condensates may serve as an initial nucleation step for pathologic aggregate formation. Recent studies have focused on identifying mechanisms by which neurons resolve phase transitioned condensates to prevent the formation of pathogenic inclusions/aggregates. The present review focuses on the phase separation of neurodegenerative disease-linked RBPs, physiological functions of RNP condensates, and the pathologic role of aberrant phase transitions in neurodegenerative disease, particularly ALS/FTD. We also examine cellular mechanisms that contribute to the resolution of aberrant condensates in neurons, and potential therapeutic approaches to resolve aberrantly phase transitioned condensates at a molecular level.

751. Linking temporal coordination of hippocampal activity to memory function.
Abstract: Oscillations in neural activity are widespread throughout the brain and can be observed at the population level through the local field potential. These rhythmic patterns are associated with cycles of excitability and are thought to coordinate networks of neurons, in turn facilitating effective communication both within local circuits and across brain regions. In the hippocampus, theta rhythms (4-12 Hz) could contribute to several key physiological mechanisms including long-range synchrony, plasticity, and at the behavioral scale, support memory encoding and retrieval. While neurons in the hippocampus appear to be temporally coordinated by theta oscillations, they also tend to fire in sequences that are developmentally preconfigured. Although loss of theta rhythmicity impairs memory, these sequences of spatiotemporal representations persist in conditions of altered hippocampal oscillations. The focus of this review is to disentangle the relative contribution of hippocampal oscillations from single-neuron activity in learning and memory. We first review cellular, anatomical, and physiological mechanisms underlying the generation and maintenance of hippocampal rhythms and how they contribute to memory function. We propose candidate hypotheses for how septohippocampal oscillations could support memory function while not contributing directly to hippocampal sequences. In particular, we explore how theta rhythms could coordinate the integration of upstream signals in the hippocampus to form future decisions, the relevance of such integration to downstream regions, as well as setting the stage for behavioral timescale synaptic plasticity. Finally, we leverage stimulation-based treatment in Alzheimer's disease conditions as an opportunity to assess the sufficiency of hippocampal oscillations for memory function.

752. TrkB-mediated sustained neuroprotection is sex-specific and ERα dependent in adult mice following neonatal hypoxia ischemia.
Abstract: Background Neonatal hypoxia ischemia (HI) related brain injury is one of the major causes of life-long neurological morbidities that result in learning and memory impairments. Evidence suggests that male neonates are more susceptible to the detrimental effects of HI, yet the mechanisms mediating these sex-specific responses to neural injury in neonates remain poorly understood. We previously tested the effects of treatment with a small molecule agonist of the tyrosine kinase B receptor (TrkB), 7,8-dihydroxyflavone (DHF) following neonatal HI and determined that females, but not males exhibit increased phosphorylation of TrkB and reduced apoptosis in their hippocampi. Moreover, these female-specific effects of the TrkB agonist were found to be dependent upon the expression of ERα. These findings demonstrated that TrkB activation in the presence of ERα comprises one pathway by which neuroprotection may be conferred in a female-specific manner. The goal of this study was to determine the role of ERα-dependent TrkB-mediated neuroprotection in memory and anxiety in young adult mice exposed to HI during the neonatal period. Methods In this study we used a unilateral hypoxic ischemic (HI) mouse model. ERα+/+ or ERα-/- mice were subjected to HI on postnatal day (P) 9 and mice were treated with either vehicle control or the TrkB agonist, DHF, for seven days following HI. When mice reached young adulthood, we used the novel object recognition, novel object location and open field tests to assess long-term memory and anxiety like behavior. The brains were then assessed for tissue damage using immunohistochemistry. Results Neonatal DHF treatment prevented HI-induced decrements in recognition and location memory in adulthood in females, but not in males. This protective effect was absent in female mice lacking ERα. Thus, the female-specific and ERα-dependent neuroprotection conferred by DHF therapy after neonatal HI was associated with improved learning and memory outcomes in adulthood. Interestingly, DHF triggered anxiety like behavior in both sexes only in the mice that lacked ERα. When we assessed the severity of injury, we found that DHF therapy did not decrease the percent tissue loss in proportion to functional recovery. We additionally observed that the presence of ERα significantly reduced overall HI-associated mortality in both sexes. Conclusions: These observations provide evidence for a therapeutic role for DHF in which sustained recovery of memory in females is TrkB-mediated and ERα-dependent. However, the beneficial effects of DHF therapy did not include reduction of gross tissue loss but may be derived from the enhanced functioning of residual tissues in a cell-specific manner.

753. Whole-body modelling reveals microbiome and genomic interactions on reduced urine formate levels in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: In this study, we aimed to understand the potential role of the gut microbiome in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We took a multi-faceted approach to investigate this relationship. Urine metabolomics were examined in individuals with AD and controls, revealing decreased formate and fumarate concentrations in AD. Additionally, we utilized whole-genome sequencing (WGS) data obtained from a separate group of individuals with AD and controls. This information allowed us to create and investigate host-microbiome personalized models. Notably, AD individuals displayed diminished formate microbial secretion in these models. Additionally, we identified specific reactions responsible for the production of formate in the host, and interestingly, these reactions were linked to genes that have correlations with AD. This study suggests formate as a possible early AD marker and highlights genetic and microbiome contributions to its production. The reduced formate secretion and its genetic associations point to a complex connection between gut microbiota and AD. This holistic understanding might pave the way for novel diagnostic and therapeutic avenues in AD management.

754. CSF metabolites associated with biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease pathology.
Abstract: Metabolomics technology facilitates studying associations between small molecules and disease processes. Correlating metabolites in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with Alzheimer's disease (AD) CSF biomarkers may elucidate additional changes that are associated with early AD pathology and enhance our knowledge of the disease.

755. The efficacy and practicality of the Neurotrack Cognitive Battery assessment for utilization in clinical settings for the identification of cognitive decline in an older Japanese population.
Abstract: Japan has the largest aging population with 33% of the population over the age of 60 years. The number of Japanese adults with dementia is estimated to be approximately 4.6 million, comprising nearly 15% of the older adult population. It is critical to administer cognitive assessments early in the disease state that have high reliability and low user burden to detect negative cognitive changes as early as possible; however, current preclinical AD detection methods are invasive, time-consuming, and expensive. A number of traditional and digital cognitive assessments are also available, but many of these tests are time-consuming, taxing to the user, and not widely scalable. The purpose of this study was to incorporate a digital cognitive assessment battery into a standard clinical assessment performed within a Japanese-based neuropsychology clinic to assess the diagnostic accuracy and the relationship between the digital Neurotrack Cognitive Assessment Battery (N-CAB) to traditional cognitive assessments.

756. The temporal event-based model: Learning event timelines in progressive diseases.
Abstract: Timelines of events, such as symptom appearance or a change in biomarker value, provide powerful signatures that characterise progressive diseases. Understanding and predicting the timing of events is important for clinical trials targeting individuals early in the disease course when putative treatments are likely to have the strongest effect. However, previous models of disease progression cannot estimate the time between events and provide only an ordering in which they change. Here, we introduce the temporal event-based model (TEBM), a new probabilistic model for inferring timelines of biomarker events from sparse and irregularly sampled datasets. We demonstrate the power of the TEBM in two neurodegenerative conditions: Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Huntington's disease (HD). In both diseases, the TEBM not only recapitulates current understanding of event orderings but also provides unique new ranges of timescales between consecutive events. We reproduce and validate these findings using external datasets in both diseases. We also demonstrate that the TEBM improves over current models; provides unique stratification capabilities; and enriches simulated clinical trials to achieve a power of 80% with less than half the cohort size compared with random selection. The application of the TEBM naturally extends to a wide range of progressive conditions.

757. Role of estrogen in the regulation of central and peripheral energy homeostasis: from a menopausal perspective.
Abstract: Estrogen plays a prominent role in regulating and coordinating energy homeostasis throughout the growth, development, reproduction, and aging of women. Estrogen receptors (ERs) are widely expressed in the brain and nearly all tissues of the body. Within the brain, central estrogen via ER regulates appetite and energy expenditure and maintains cell glucose metabolism, including glucose transport, aerobic glycolysis, and mitochondrial function. In the whole body, estrogen has shown beneficial effects on weight control, fat distribution, glucose and insulin resistance, and adipokine secretion. As demonstrated by multiple in vitro and in vivo studies, menopause-related decline of circulating estrogen may induce the disturbance of metabolic signals and a significant decrease in bioenergetics, which could trigger an increased incidence of late-onset Alzheimer's disease, type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and cardiovascular diseases in postmenopausal women. In this article, we have systematically reviewed the role of estrogen and ERs in body composition and lipid/glucose profile variation occurring with menopause, which may provide a better insight into the efficacy of hormone therapy in maintaining energy metabolic homeostasis and hold a clue for development of novel therapeutic approaches for target tissue diseases.

758. EEG-based clinical decision support system for Alzheimer's disorders diagnosis using EMD and deep learning techniques.
Abstract: Despite the existence of numerous clinical techniques for identifying neurological brain disorders in their early stages, Electroencephalogram (EEG) data shows great promise as a means of detecting Alzheimer's disease (AD) at an early stage. The main goal of this research is to create a reliable and accurate clinical decision support system leveraging EEG signal processing to detect AD in its initial phases.

759. An interventional study of baicalin on neuronal pentraxin-1, neuronal pentraxin-2, and C-reactive protein in Alzheimer's disease rat model.
Abstract: Baicalin has been shown to promote spatial learning and neural regeneration, which might increase the differentiation of neural stem cells in Alzheimer's disease (AD) rat models. We aimed to study the role of baicalin on neuronal pentraxin-1 (NPTX-1), neuronal pentraxin-2 (NPTX-2), and C-reactive protein (CRP) in AD model rats.

760. Impact of Denture Prostheses on Cognitive Functioning in Completely Edentulous Patients: A Pilot Study.
Abstract: The aim is to evaluate the impact of denture prostheses on cognitive functioning in completely edentulous patients using a novel cognitive assessment tool.

761. Integrative multi-omics and systems bioinformatics in translational neuroscience: A data mining perspective.
Abstract: Bioinformatic analysis of large and complex omics datasets has become increasingly useful in modern day biology by providing a great depth of information, with its application to neuroscience termed neuroinformatics. Data mining of omics datasets has enabled the generation of new hypotheses based on differentially regulated biological molecules associated with disease mechanisms, which can be tested experimentally for improved diagnostic and therapeutic targeting of neurodegenerative diseases. Importantly, integrating multi-omics data using a systems bioinformatics approach will advance the understanding of the layered and interactive network of biological regulation that exchanges systemic knowledge to facilitate the development of a comprehensive human brain profile. In this review, we first summarize data mining studies utilizing datasets from the individual type of omics analysis, including epigenetics/epigenomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics, lipidomics, and spatial omics, pertaining to Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and multiple sclerosis. We then discuss multi-omics integration approaches, including independent biological integration and unsupervised integration methods, for more intuitive and informative interpretation of the biological data obtained across different omics layers. We further assess studies that integrate multi-omics in data mining which provide convoluted biological insights and offer proof-of-concept proposition towards systems bioinformatics in the reconstruction of brain networks. Finally, we recommend a combination of high dimensional bioinformatics analysis with experimental validation to achieve translational neuroscience applications including biomarker discovery, therapeutic development, and elucidation of disease mechanisms. We conclude by providing future perspectives and opportunities in applying integrative multi-omics and systems bioinformatics to achieve precision phenotyping of neurodegenerative diseases and towards personalized medicine.

762. Common microRNA regulated pathways in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease.
Abstract: MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs involved in gene regulation. Recently, miRNA dysregulation has been found in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). The diagnosis of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's is currently challenging, mainly occurring when pathology is already present, and although treatments are available for both diseases, the role of treatment is primarily to prevent or delay the progress of the diseases instead of fully overcoming the diseases. Therefore, the challenge in the near future will be to determine effective drugs to tackle the dysregulated biological pathways in neurodegenerative diseases. In the present study, we describe the dysregulation of miRNAs in blood of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's patients with the aim to identify common mechanisms between the 2 pathologies and potentially to identify common therapeutic targets which can stop or delay the progression of two most frequent neuropathologies. Two independent systematic reviews, bioinformatic analysis, and experiment validation were performed to identify whether AD and PD share common pathways. A total of 15 common miRNAs were found in the literature and 13 common KEGG pathways. Among the common miRNAs, two were selected for validation in a small cohort of AD and PD patients. Let-7f-5p and miR-29b-3p showed to be good predictors in blood of PD patients.

763. Code-Based Algorithms for Identifying Dementia in Electronic Health Records: Bridging the Gap Between Theory and Practice.
Abstract: Code-based algorithms are crucial tools in the detection of dementia using electronic health record data, with broad applications in medical research and healthcare. Vassilaki et al.'s study explores the efficacy of code-based algorithms in dementia detection using electronic health record data, achieving approximately 70% sensitivity and positive predictive value. Despite the promising results, the algorithms fail to detect around 30% of dementia cases, highlighting challenges in distinguishing cognitive decline factors. The study emphasizes the need for algorithmic improvements and further exploration across diverse healthcare systems and populations, serving as a critical step toward bridging gaps in dementia care and understanding.

764. Structure-Based Identification of Natural Compounds as Potential RET-Kinase Inhibitors for Therapeutic Targeting of Neurodegenerative Diseases.
Abstract: Tyrosine-protein kinase receptor Ret (RET), a proto-oncogene, is considered as an attractive drug target for cancer and neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD).

765. Deletion of the Homocysteine Thiolactone Detoxifying Enzyme Bleomycin Hydrolase, in Mice, Causes Memory and Neurological Deficits and Worsens Alzheimer's Disease-Related Behavioral and Biochemical Traits in the 5xFAD Model of Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Bleomycin hydrolase (BLMH), a homocysteine (Hcy)-thiolactone detoxifying enzyme, is attenuated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains. Blmh loss causes astrogliosis in mice while the loss of histone demethylase Phf8, which controls mTOR signaling, causes neuropathy in mice and humans.

766. Malignant Brain Aging: The Formidable Link Between Dysregulated Signaling Through Mechanistic Target of Rapamycin Pathways and Alzheimer's Disease (Type 3 Diabetes).
Abstract: Malignant brain aging corresponds to accelerated age-related declines in brain functions eventually derailing the self-sustaining forces that govern independent vitality. Malignant brain aging establishes the path toward dementing neurodegeneration, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). The full spectrum of AD includes progressive dysfunction of neurons, oligodendrocytes, astrocytes, microglia, and the microvascular systems, and is mechanistically driven by insulin and insulin-like growth factor (IGF) deficiencies and resistances with accompanying deficits in energy balance, increased cellular stress, inflammation, and impaired perfusion, mimicking the core features of diabetes mellitus. The underlying pathophysiological derangements result in mitochondrial dysfunction, abnormal protein aggregation, increased oxidative and endoplasmic reticulum stress, aberrant autophagy, and abnormal post-translational modification of proteins, all of which are signature features of both AD and dysregulated insulin/IGF-1-mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling. This article connects the dots from benign to malignant aging to neurodegeneration by reviewing the salient pathologies associated with initially adaptive and later dysfunctional mTOR signaling in the brain. Effective therapeutic and preventive measures must be two-pronged and designed to 1) address complex and shifting impairments in mTOR signaling through the re-purpose of effective anti-diabetes therapeutics that target the brain, and 2) minimize the impact of extrinsic mediators of benign to malignant aging transitions, e.g., inflammatory states, obesity, systemic insulin resistance diseases, and repeated bouts of general anesthesia, by minimizing exposures or implementing neuroprotective measures.

767. Detecting Anosognosia from the Prodromal Stage of Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Though not originally developed for this purpose, the Healthy Aging Brain Care Monitor (HABC-M) seems a valuable instrument for assessing anosognosia in Alzheimer's disease (AD).

768. Cerebral Gray and White Matter Monogalactosyl Diglyceride Levels Rise with the Progression of Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Multiple studies have reported brain lipidomic abnormalities in Alzheimer's disease (AD) that affect glycerophospholipids, sphingolipids, and fatty acids. However, there is no consensus regarding the nature of these abnormalities, and it is unclear if they relate to disease progression.

769. Inter-Hospital Advanced and Mild Alzheimer's Disease Classification Based on Electroencephalogram Measurements via Classical Machine Learning Algorithms.
Abstract: In pursuit of diagnostic tools capable of targeting distinct stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD), this study explores the potential of electroencephalography (EEG) combined with machine learning (ML) algorithms to identify patients with mild or moderate AD (ADM) and advanced AD (ADA).

770. Type 2 Diabetes Comorbidity and Cognitive Decline in Patients with Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Although insulin dysregulation and resistance likely participate in Alzheimer's disease (AD) etiologies, little is known about the correlation between type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and the progression of cognitive decline in patients with AD.

771. Handwriting Changes in Alzheimer's Disease: A Systematic Review.
Abstract: Handwriting is a complex process involving fine motor skills, kinesthetic components, and several cognitive domains, often impaired by Alzheimer's disease (AD).

772. RhoA-LIMK Signaling Axis Reveals Rostral-Caudal Plane and Spatial Dysregulation in the Brain of Alzheimer's Disease Mouse Models.
Abstract: RhoA signaling is widely reported to be dysregulated in Alzheimer's disease (AD), but its therapeutic targeting demonstrated mixed outcomes. We hypothesize that the activation and inactivation states of RhoA and LIMK are different in the cortex and in subregions of hippocampus along the rostral-caudal dimensions.

773. Long-Term Safety, Tolerability, and Efficacy of a Transdermal Donepezil Patch in Patients with Severe Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Oral formulations are not suitable for demented patients with dysphagia, those refuse to take tablets, or those with drug compliance problem. However, only oral formulations of donepezil hydrochloride are approved for the treatment of severe Alzheimer's disease in Japan.

774. Dissecting Mitochondrial Mechanisms of Alzheimer's Disease Using Gene Dependency Network and Its Implications for Discovering Nutrients Combatting the Disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia, with its prevalence increasing as the global population ages. AD is a multifactorial and intricate neurodegenerative disease with pathological changes varying from person to person. Because the mechanism of AD is highly controversial, effective treatments remain a distant prospect. Currently, one of the most promising hypotheses posits mitochondrial dysfunction as an early event in AD diagnosis and a potential therapeutic target.

775. Association Between Olfactory Test Data with Multiple Levels of Odor Intensity and Suspected Cognitive Impairment: A Cross-Sectional Study.
Abstract: Olfactory function decline has recently been reported to be associated with a risk of cognitive impairment. Few population-based studies have included younger adults when examining the association between olfactory test data with multiple odor intensities and suspected cognitive impairment.

776. Precision Medicine for Preventing Alzheimer's Disease: Analysis of the ADAPT Study.
Abstract: The Alzheimer's Disease Anti-inflammatory Prevention Trial (ADAPT) was the first-ever large-scale anti-inflammatory prevention trial targeting Alzheimer's disease.

777. Public Perspectives on Lifestyle-Related Behavior Change for Dementia Risk Reduction: An Exploratory Qualitative Study in The Netherlands.
Abstract: There is accumulating evidence that addressing modifiable risk and protective factors has an impact on dementia rates. Insight into the public's perspectives on dementia risk reduction is needed to inform future individual-level interventions and public health approaches.

778. Clock Drawing Test: Types of Errors and Accuracy in Early Cognitive Screening.
Abstract: Clock Drawing Test (CDT) is a commonly used screening tool for cognitive disorders, known for its ease of administration and scoring. Despite frequent use by clinicians, CDT is criticized for its poor predictive value in mild cases of impairment.

779. Integration and Evaluation of a Community-Level Dementia Screening Program in Kenya (DEM-SKY): A Protocol.
Abstract: In Kenya, many people are currently living with dementia without a formal diagnosis or support; often attributing symptoms to normal aging or as a consequence of past behaviors. Dementia screening is not commonplace within Kenya. Improving the supply (or opportunity) of dementia screening within the region may promote uptake, thus leading to more people to seek a formal diagnosis and subsequently receive support within the Kenyan healthcare system. Community Healthcare Workers (CHWs) have successfully demonstrated their value in delivering health interventions within Kenya and have strong links within local communities.

780. Disrupted Excitation-Inhibition Balance in Cognitively Normal Individuals at Risk of Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Sex differences impact Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuropathology, but cell-to-network level dysfunctions in the prodromal phase are unclear. Alterations in hippocampal excitation-inhibition balance (EIB) have recently been linked to early AD pathology.

781. Inadequate reimbursement for lumbar puncture is a potential barrier to accessing new Alzheimer's disease treatments.
Abstract: Abstract not available for PMID: 37718645

782. Health care utilization and costs in the years preceding dementia identification.
Abstract: There is evidence that health care utilization increases after incident dementia, particularly after dementia diagnosis and toward the end of life; however, less is known about utilization in the years before dementia identification.

783. Associations of perceived stress and psychological resilience with cognition and a modifiable dementia risk score in middle-aged adults.
Abstract: Psychological stress has been proposed as a risk factor for cognitive impairment and dementia. However, it remains unclear how an individual's stress-coping ability (i.e., psychological resilience) is related to cognition. This cross-sectional study investigated whether perceived stress and psychological resilience were associated with cognition and a modifiable dementia risk score in a large community-based sample of cognitively normal adults. The moderating effect of psychological resilience was also examined.

784. Narcissin induces developmental toxicity and cardiotoxicity in zebrafish embryos via Nrf2/HO-1 and calcium signaling pathways.
Abstract: Narcissin is a natural flavonoid from some edible and traditional medicinal plants. It has been proven to have multiple biological functions and exhibits potential therapeutic effects on hypertension, cancer, and Alzheimer's disease. However, the toxicity of narcissin is largely unknown. Here, we revealed that narcissin treatment led to reduced hatchability, increased malformation rate, shorter body length, and slowed blood flow in zebrafish. Furthermore, bradycardia, pericardial edema, increased SV-BA distance, diminished stroke volume, ejection fraction, and ventricular short-axis shortening rate were also found. A large accumulation of ROS, increased apoptotic cells, and histopathological changes were detected in the heart region. Moreover, the gene expression profiles and molecular docking analysis indicated that Nrf2/HO-1 and calcium signaling pathways were involved in narcissin-induced toxicity. In conclusion, here we provide the first evidence that demonstrates narcissin-induced developmental toxicity and cardiotoxicity in zebrafish via Nrf2/HO-1 and calcium signaling pathways for the first time.

785. Ligustilide-loaded liposome ameliorates mitochondrial impairments and improves cognitive function via the PKA/AKAP1 signaling pathway in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Oxidative stress is an early event in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and maybe a pivotal point of interaction governing AD pathogenesis; oxidative stress contributes to metabolism imbalance, protein misfolding, neuroinflammation and apoptosis. Excess reactive oxygen species (ROS) are a major contributor to oxidative stress. As vital sources of ROS, mitochondria are also the primary targets of ROS attack. Seeking effective avenues to reduce oxidative stress has attracted increasing attention for AD intervention.

786. 2-Oxoquinoline-based-thiosemicarbazones as multitargeting neurotherapeutics against Alzheimer's disease: In vitro and in silico studies of MAO and ChE inhibitors.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) presents a multifactorial neurological disorder with multiple enzyme involvement in its onset. Conventional monotherapies fall short in providing long-term relief, necessitating the exploration of alternative multitargeting approaches to address the complexity of AD. Therefore, the design, synthesis, and in vitro and in silico evaluation of 2-oxoquinoline-based thiosemicarbazones 9a-r as multipotent analogs, able to simultaneously inhibit the cholinesterase (ChE) and monoamine oxidase (MAO) enzymes for the potential treatment of AD, are reported. In the in vitro experimental evaluation of MAO and ChE inhibition, all tested compounds demonstrated remarkable potency exhibiting nonselective inhibition of both MAO-A and MAO-B, and selective inhibition of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) over butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), with 9d, 9j, and 9m evolving as lead compounds for MAO-A, MAO-B, and AChE, displaying IC50 values of 0.35 ± 0.92, 0.50 ± 0.02, and 0.25 ± 0.13 μM, respectively. Moreover, the kinetic studies revealed that all tested compounds inhibited all three enzymes through a competitive mode of inhibition. Furthermore, the molecular docking studies of the most active compounds revealed several crucial interactions, particularly hydrogen bonding interactions. These interactions were observed between the nitrogen and sulfur atoms of thiosemicarbazone and the nitrogen and oxygen atoms of the quinoline ring with various amino acids, suggesting the strong interactions of these compounds with the enzymes.

787. Predicting mild cognitive impairments from cognitively normal brains using a novel brain age estimation model based on structural magnetic resonance imaging.
Abstract: Brain age prediction is a practical method used to quantify brain aging and detect neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, very few studies have considered brain age prediction as a biomarker for the conversion of cognitively normal (CN) to mild cognitive impairment (MCI). In this study, we developed a novel brain age prediction model using brain volume and cortical thickness features. We calculated an acceleration of brain age (ABA) derived from the suggested model to estimate different diagnostic groups (CN, MCI, and AD) and to classify CN to MCI and MCI to AD conversion groups. We observed a strong association between ABA and the 3 diagnostic groups. Additionally, the classification models for CN to MCI conversion and MCI to AD conversion exhibited acceptable and robust performances, with area under the curve values of 0.66 and 0.76, respectively. We believe that our proposed model provides a reliable estimate of brain age for elderly individuals and can identify those at risk of progressing from CN to MCI. This model has great potential to reveal a diagnosis associated with a change in cognitive decline.

788. Signaling mechanism of growth hormone-releasing hormone receptor.
Abstract: The hypothalamic peptide growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) stimulates the secretion of growth hormone (GH) from the pituitary through binding and activation of the pituitary type of GHRH receptor (GHRH-R), which belongs to the family of G protein-coupled receptors with seven potential membrane-spanning domains. Splice variants of GHRH-Rs (SV) in human tumors and other extra pituitary tissues were identified and their cDNA was sequenced. Among the SVs, splice variant 1 (SV1) possesses the greatest similarity to the full-length GHRH-R and remains functional by eliciting cAMP signaling and mitogenic activity upon GHRH stimulation. A large body of work have evaluated potential clinical applications of agonists and antagonists of GHRH in diverse fields, including endocrinology, oncology, cardiology, diabetes, obesity, metabolic dysfunctions, Alzheimer's disease, ophthalmology, wound healing and other applications. In this chapter, we briefly review the expression and potential function of GHRH-Rs and their SVs in various tissues and also elucidate and summarize the activation, molecular mechanism and signalization pathways of these receptors. Therapeutic applications of GHRH analogs are also discussed.

789. Yuanzhi powder facilitated Aβ clearance in APP/PS1 mice: Target to the drainage of glymphatic system and meningeal lymphatic vessels.
Abstract: Yuanzhi Powder (YZP) is a classical Chinese medicine prescription, which is suitable for the treatment of dementia by "dispelling phlegm and opening orifice". The therapeutic efficacy of YZP on Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been previously reported in our work. However, it remains unclear whether the neuroprotective effect of YZP is linked to β-amyloid(Aβ) clearance through cerebral lymphatic drainage.

790. Gamma connectivity predicts response to intermittent theta burst stimulation in Alzheimer's disease: a randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: There is growing evidence that neural network dysfunction is a likely proximate cause of cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease and may represent a promising therapeutic target. Here, we investigated whether a course of intermittent theta burst stimulation (iTBS) could modulate functional connectivity and cognition in mild to moderate Alzheimer's. In a double-blind parallel randomized sham-controlled trial, 58 participants were randomized to either active or sham iTBS. Stimulation was applied to the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, left posterior parietal cortex, and right posterior parietal cortex in every treatment session. Neurobiological (electroencephalography), cognitive, and behavioral functional assessments were undertaken at baseline and end of treatment. Cognitive and functional assessments were also conducted at 3 (blinded) and 6 month (active group only) follow-ups. Active iTBS increased resting-state gamma connectivity and improved delayed recall on an episodic memory task. Both baseline gamma connectivity and change in gamma connectivity predicted improved delayed recall following active treatment. These findings support future research into iTBS for Alzheimer's focusing on protocol optimization.

791. Conformational inhibitors of protein aggregation.
Abstract: Amyloidoses are fatal conditions associated with the aggregation of proteins into amyloid fibrils that deposit systemically and/or locally. Possibly because the causal mechanism of protein aggregation and deposition is not fully understood, this group of diseases remains uncurable. Advances in structural biology, such as the use of nuclear magnetic resonance and cryo-electron microscopy, have enabled the study of the structures and the conformational nature of the proteins whose aggregation is associated with the underlying pathogenesis of amyloidosis. As a result, the last years of research have translated into the development of directed therapeutic strategies that target the specific conformations of precursors, fibrils, and intermediary species. Current efforts include the use of small molecules, peptides, and antibodies. This review summarizes the recent progress in developing strategies that target specific protein conformations for the treatment of amyloidoses.

792. Oral and Transdermal Rivastigmine for the Treatment of Anticholinergic Delirium: A Case Report.
Abstract: Anticholinergic toxicity is a common cause of delirium in emergency department patients. The standard antidotal treatment for anticholinergic toxicity is physostigmine. Physostigmine functions as a reversible acetylcholinesterase inhibitor that readily crosses the blood-brain barrier. Rivastigmine is another member of this class currently approved for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Rivastigmine also crosses the blood-brain barrier and has been found to be effective in the management of anticholinergic toxicity in limited case reports.

793. Valine conjugated polymeric nanocarriers for targeted co-delivery of rivastigmine and quercetin in rat model of Alzheimer disease.
Abstract: Multifunctional nanocarriers are increasingly promising for disease treatment aimed at finding effective therapy and overcoming barriers in drug delivery. Herein, valine conjugated chitosan (VLCS) was used for surface modification of nanocarriers (NCs) based on Poly (ε-caprolactone)-Poly (ethylene glycol)-Poly (ε-caprolactone) (PCL-PEG-PCL) triblock copolymers (NCs@VLCS). The nanocarriers were co-loaded with rivastigmine (RV) and quercetin (QT) to yield the final RV/QT-NCs@VLCS as a multifunctional nanocarrier for Alzheimer's disease (AD) treatment. The large amino acid transporter 1 (LAT-1) was selected for the direction of the NCs to the brain. The biocompatibility of the nanocarrier was studied in HEK-293 and SH-SY5Y cells and rats. The Morris water maze test demonstrated a faster regain of memory loss with RV/QT-NCs@VLCS compared to the other groups. Furthermore, RV/QT-NCs@VLCS and RV/QT-NCs improved GSH depletion induced by scopolamine (SCO), with RV/QT-NCs@VLCS having a superior effect. The real-time PCR analysis revealed that co-delivery of RV and QT by NCs@VLCS showed significantly higher efficacy than sole delivery of RV. RV/QT-NCs@VLCS treatment also modulated the expression of BDNF, ACHE, and TNF-α. The findings revealed that NCs@VLCS co-loaded with RV and QT, significantly increased efficacy relative to the single use of RV and could be considered a potent multifunctional drug delivery system for Alzheimer's treatment.

794. P2X7R influences tau aggregate burden in human tauopathies and shows distinct signalling in microglia and astrocytes.
Abstract: The purinoceptor P2X7R is a promising therapeutic target for tauopathies, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Pharmacological inhibition or genetic knockdown of P2X7R ameliorates cognitive deficits and reduces pathological tau burden in mice that model aspects of tauopathy, including mice expressing mutant human frontotemporal dementia (FTD)-causing forms of tau. However, disagreements remain over which glial cell types express P2X7R and therefore the mechanism of action is unresolved. Here, we show that P2X7R protein levels increase in human AD post-mortem brain, in agreement with an upregulation of P2RX7 mRNA observed in transcriptome profiles from the AMP-AD consortium. P2X7R protein increases mirror advancing Braak stage and coincide with synapse loss. Using RNAScope we detect P2RX7 mRNA in microglia and astrocytes in human AD brain, including in the vicinity of senile plaques. In cultured microglia, P2X7R activation modulates the NLRP3 inflammasome pathway by promoting the formation of active complexes and release of IL-1β. In astrocytes, P2X7R activates NFκB signalling and increases production of the cytokines CCL2, CXCL1 and IL-6 together with the acute phase protein Lcn2. To further explore the role of P2X7R in a disease-relevant context, we expressed wild-type or FTD-causing mutant forms of tau in mouse organotypic brain slice cultures. Inhibition of P2X7R reduces insoluble tau levels without altering soluble tau phosphorylation or synaptic localisation, suggesting a non-cell autonomous role of glial P2X7R on pathological tau aggregation. These findings support further investigations into the cell-type specific effects of P2X7R-targeting therapies in tauopathies.

795. Positive airway pressure adherence among patients with obstructive sleep apnea and cognitive impairment: A narrative review.
Abstract: Adults with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) have increased rates of Obstructive Sleep Apnea (OSA). Positive Airway Pressure (PAP) is the first-line treatment for OSA and may have potential benefits for slowing cognitive decline in these individuals. However, adherence is low in PAP users overall and those with cognitive impairment may have unique challenges. Furthermore, there has been little systematic study of the use of PAP or strategies to enhance PAP adherence among those with AD or MCI. The aim of this review is to examine existing observational, quasi-experimental and experimental studies of the effects of PAP on cognitive function. In addition, our goal was to gather evidence about the adherence rates, and support for PAP among adults with MCI and mild to moderate AD. Through searches of electronic databases (University of Utah Library, SAGE Publishing, PubMed, Wiley, EBSCO, Science Direct, ProQuest, and NCBI), we identified 11 articles that fit our study inclusion criteria. Synthesis of data was performed with a focus on cognitive outcomes of PAP interventions and adherence. Findings from the studies showed that multiple indices of memory improved with PAP use. Adherence in MCI and AD populations was largely comparable to adherence reported in general adult populations, but more research is needed to optimize systems for providing support for PAP users and caregivers. Results support PAP as a promising intervention in this population but more research is needed to make definitive conclusions about the relationship between PAP use and improved cognitive function. Furthermore, research is needed to determine if additional interventions are needed to support patients and caregivers.

796. Exercise as an add-on treatment in individuals with schizophrenia: Results from a large multicenter randomized controlled trial.
Abstract: Current treatment methods do not achieve recovery for most individuals with schizophrenia, and symptoms such as negative symptoms and cognitive deficits often persist. Aerobic endurance training has been suggested as a potential add-on treatment targeting both physical and mental health. We performed a large-scale multicenter, rater-blind, parallel-group randomized controlled clinical trial in individuals with stable schizophrenia. Participants underwent a professionally supervised six-month training comprising either aerobic endurance training (AET) or flexibility, strengthening, and balance training (FSBT, control group), follow-up was another six months. The primary endpoint was all-cause discontinuation (ACD); secondary endpoints included effects on psychopathology, cognition, functioning, and cardiovascular risk. In total, 180 participants were randomized. AET was not superior to FSBT in ACD and most secondary outcomes, with dropout rates of 59.55% and 57.14% in the six-month active phase, respectively. However, both groups showed significant improvements in positive, general, and total symptoms, levels of functioning and in cognitive performance. A higher training frequency additionally promoted further memory domains. Participants with higher baseline cognitive abilities were more likely to respond to the interventions. Our results support integrating exercise into schizophrenia treatment, while future studies should aim to develop personalized training recommendations to maximize exercise-induced benefits.

797. The comprehensive mechanism underlying Schisandra polysaccharide in AD-like symptoms of Aβ25-35-induced rats based on hippocampal metabolomics and serum lipidomics techniques.
Abstract: As is well documented, Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most prevalent neurodegenerative disease. Meanwhile, Schisandra polysaccharide (SCP) has been reported to exert a protective effect on the nervous system and can regulate metabolic disorders in AD-like symptoms of amyloid β-peptide (Aβ) 25-35-induced rats. Nevertheless, the underlying mechanisms and metabolic markers for the diagnosis of AD are yet to be determined. This study aimed to explore the neuroprotective effect and potential mechanism of action of SCP in AD-like symptoms of Aβ25-35-induced rats by combining pharmacodynamics, metabolomics, and lipidomics. The pharmacodynamic results revealed that SCP significantly improved the spatial learning and long-term memory function and the morphology of neurons in the hippocampal CA1 region, alleviated inflammatory damage and oxidative stress, inhibited the activation of microglia and astrocytes, and increased the proportion of mature neurons of AD-like symptoms of Aβ25-35-induced rats. The results of hippocampal metabolomics and serum lipidomics showed 46 and 48 potential biomarkers were identified for the SCP treatment of AD, respectively. The involved pathways principally comprised lipid metabolism, amino acid metabolism, and energy metabolism. This study elucidates the neuroprotective effect of SCP in AD and its mechanism from the perspective of metabolomics and lipidomics and provides a theoretical basis for the therapeutic effect of SCP in AD.

798. Plasma p-tau181 as a promising non-invasive biomarker of Alzheimer's Disease pathology in Subjective Cognitive Decline and Mild Cognitive Impairment.
Abstract: The aim of this study is to investigate the role of plasma phosphorylated tau (p-tau) 181 as a potential biomarker for Alzheimer's Disease (AD) pathology in the early stages of the disease, as a valuable marker for tauopathy.

799. Comparative study of Raman spectroscopy techniques in blood plasma-based clinical diagnostics: A demonstration on Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Nowadays, there are still many diseases with limited or no reliable methods of early diagnosis. A popular approach in clinical diagnostic research is Raman spectroscopy, as a relatively simple, cost-effective, and high-throughput method for searching for disease-specific alterations in the composition of blood plasma. However, the high variability of the experimental designs, targeted diseases, or statistical processing in the individual studies makes it challenging to compare and compile the results to critically assess the applicability of Raman spectroscopy in real clinical practice. This study aimed to compare data from a single series of blood plasma samples of patients with Alzheimer's disease and non-demented elderly controls obtained by four different techniques/experimental setups - Raman spectroscopy with excitation at 532 and 785 nm, Raman optical activity, and surface-enhanced Raman scattering spectroscopy. The obtained results showed that the spectra from each Raman spectroscopy technique contain different information about biomolecules of blood plasma or their conformation and may, therefore, offer diverse points of view on underlying biochemical processes of the disease. The classification models based on the datasets generated by the three non-chiroptical variants of Raman spectroscopy exhibited comparable diagnostic performance, all reaching an accuracy close to or equal to 80%. Raman optical activity achieved only 60% classification accuracy, suggesting its limited applicability in the specific case of Alzheimer's disease diagnostics. The described differences in the outputs of the four utilized techniques/setups of Raman spectroscopy imply that their choice may crucially affect the acquired results and thus should be approached carefully concerning the specific purpose.

800. Antidementia Medication Use in Nursing Home Residents.
Abstract: Antidementia medication can provide symptomatic improvements in patients with Alzheimer's disease, but there is a lack of consensus guidance on when to start and stop treatment in the nursing home setting.

801. Psychobiotics for Mitigation of Neuro-Degenerative Diseases: Recent Advancements.
Abstract: Ageing is inevitable and poses a universal challenge for all living organisms, including humans. The human body experiences rapid cell division and metabolism until approximately 25 years of age, after which the accumulation of metabolic by-products and cellular damage leads to age-related diseases. Neurodegenerative diseases are of concern due to their irreversible nature, lack of effective treatment, and impact on society and the economy. Researchers are interested in finding drugs that can effectively alleviate ageing and age-related diseases without side-effects. Psychobiotics are a novel class of probiotic organisms and prebiotic interventions that confer mental health benefits to the host when taken appropriately. Psychobiotic strains affect functions related to the central nervous system (CNS) and behaviors mediated by the Gut-Brain-Axis (GBA) through various pathways. There is an increasing interest in researchers of these microbial-based psychopharmaceuticals. Psychobiotics have been reported to reduce neuronal ageing, inflammation, oxidative stress, and cortisol levels; increase synaptic plasticity and levels of neurotransmitters and antioxidants. The present review focuses on the manifestation of elderly neurodegenerative and mental disorders, particularly Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and depression, and the current status of their potential alleviation through psychobiotic interventions, highlighting their possible mechanisms of action.

802. Home-based transcranial alternating current stimulation (tACS) in Alzheimer's disease: rationale and study design.
Abstract: Gamma (γ) brain oscillations are dysregulated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and can be modulated using transcranial alternating stimulation (tACS). In the present paper, we describe the rationale and design of a study assessing safety, feasibility, clinical and biological efficacy, and predictors of outcome of a home-based intervention consisting of γ-tACS over the precuneus.

803. Identification of metabolism-related subtypes and feature genes in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Owing to the heterogeneity of Alzheimer's disease (AD), its pathogenic mechanisms are yet to be fully elucidated. Evidence suggests an important role of metabolism in the pathophysiology of AD. Herein, we identified the metabolism-related AD subtypes and feature genes.

804. Light modulates task-dependent thalamo-cortical connectivity during an auditory attentional task.
Abstract: Exposure to blue wavelength light stimulates alertness and performance by modulating a widespread set of task-dependent cortical and subcortical areas. How light affects the crosstalk between brain areas to trigger this stimulating effect is not established. Here we record the brain activity of 19 healthy young participants (24.05±2.63; 12 women) while they complete an auditory attentional task in darkness or under an active (blue-enriched) or a control (orange) light, in an ultra-high-field 7 Tesla MRI scanner. We test if light modulates the effective connectivity between an area of the posterior associative thalamus, encompassing the pulvinar, and the intraparietal sulcus (IPS), key areas in the regulation of attention. We find that only the blue-enriched light strengthens the connection from the posterior thalamus to the IPS. To the best of our knowledge, our results provide the first empirical data supporting that blue wavelength light affects ongoing non-visual cognitive activity by modulating task-dependent information flow from subcortical to cortical areas.

805. C3N nanodots inhibits Aβ peptides aggregation pathogenic path in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Despite the accumulating evidence linking the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) to the aggregation of Aβ peptides and the emergence of Aβ oligomers, the FDA has approved very few anti-aggregation-based therapies over the past several decades. Here, we report the discovery of an Aβ peptide aggregation inhibitor: an ultra-small nanodot called C3N. C3N nanodots alleviate aggregation-induced neuron cytotoxicity, rescue neuronal death, and prevent neurite damage in vitro. Importantly, they reduce the global cerebral Aβ peptides levels, particularly in fibrillar amyloid plaques, and restore synaptic loss in AD mice. Consequently, these C3N nanodots significantly ameliorate behavioral deficits of APP/PS1 double transgenic male AD mice. Moreover, analysis of critical tissues (e.g., heart, liver, spleen, lung, and kidney) display no obvious pathological damage, suggesting C3N nanodots are biologically safe. Finally, molecular dynamics simulations also reveal the inhibitory mechanisms of C3N nanodots in Aβ peptides aggregation and its potential application against AD.

806. Anti-tau antibodies targeting a conformation-dependent epitope selectively bind seeds.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative tauopathies are caused by the transition of tau protein from a monomer to a toxic aggregate. They include Alzheimer disease (AD), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), corticobasal degeneration (CBD), and Pick disease (PiD). We have previously proposed that tau monomer exists in two conformational ensembles: an inert form (Mi), which does not self-assemble, and seed-competent form (Ms), which self-assembles and templates ordered assembly growth. We proposed that cis/trans isomerization of tau at P301, the site of dominant disease-associated S/L missense mutations, might underlie the transition of wild-type tau to a seed-competent state. Consequently, we created monoclonal antibodies using non-natural antigens consisting of fluorinated proline (P∗) at the analogous P270 in repeat 1 (R1), biased toward the trans-configuration at either the R1/R2 (TENLKHQP∗GGGKVQIINKK) or the R1/R3 (TENLKHQP∗GGGKVQIVYK) interfaces. Two antibodies, MD2.2 and MD3.1, efficiently immunoprecipitated soluble seeds from AD and PSP but not CBD or PiD brain samples. The antibodies efficiently stained brain samples of AD, PSP, and PiD, but not CBD. They did not immunoprecipitate or immunostain tau from the control brain. Creation of potent anti-seed antibodies based on the trans-proline epitope implicates local unfolding around P301 in pathogenesis. MD2.2 and MD3.1 may also be useful for therapy and diagnosis.

807. 40 Hz Electroacupuncture relieves the memory dysfunction of 5xFAD mice by regulating neuronal electrical activity.
Abstract: In this investigation, we probed the impacts of 40 Hz Electroacupuncture (EA) on the cognitive function and brain activity in 5xFAD mice. Three groups of mice were constituted: the Model group of 5xFAD mice, the Wild Type (WT) group of littermate controls, and the EA group of 5xFAD mice subjected to EA treatment. Behavioral tests were conducted to evaluate memory function and anxiety levels, while the presence of Aβ plaques were detected via immunostaining, and neuronal activity was measured using multichannel recordings. Our results indicated that EA therapy enhanced memory function and anxiety-like behavior in 5xFAD mice, as well as diminishing the abundance and dimensions of Aβ plaques in the hippocampus and mPFC regions. Notably, the suppression of astrocyte activation was observed, which was potentially associated with alterations in gamma oscillation. Furthermore, the synaptic transmission of neurons was amplified, suggesting a possible modulation in neural activity. These findings indicate that 40 Hz EA could influence cognitive performance and potentially affect neuronal activity in 5xFAD mice, while the direct connection between EA and neuronal electrical activity regulation requires further exploration. The potential frequency-specific effects of EA on protective mechanisms in the brain was not addressed in this study and thus presents a direction for future research.

808. TDP-43 protein interactome informs about perturbed canonical pathways and may help develop personalized medicine approaches for patients with TDP-43 pathology.
Abstract: Transactive response DNA binding protein of 43 kDa (TDP-43) pathology is a common proteinopathy observed among a broad spectrum of patients with neurodegenerative disease, regardless of the mutation. This suggests that protein-protein interactions of TDP-43 with other proteins may in part be responsible for the pathology. To gain better insights, we investigated TDP-43-binding proteins in each domain and correlated these interactions with canonical pathways. These investigations revealed key cellular events that are involved and are important at each domain and suggested previously identified compounds to modulate key aspects of these canonical pathways. Our approach proposes that personalized medicine approaches, which focus on perturbed cellular mechanisms would be feasible in the near future.

809. Cell membrane-based nanomaterials for therapeutics of neurodegenerative diseases.
Abstract: Central nervous system (CNS) diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), glioblastoma (GBM), and peripheral nerve injury have been documented as incurable diseases, which lead to serious impacts on human health especially prevalent in the aging population worldwide. Most of the treatment strategies fail due to low efficacy, toxicity, and poor brain penetration. Recently, advancements in nanotechnology have helped alleviate the challenges associated with the application of cell membrane-based nanomaterials against CNS diseases. In the following review, the existing types of cell membrane-based nanomaterials systems which have improved therapeutic efficacy for CNS diseases would be described. A summary of recent progress in the incorporation of nanomaterials in cell membrane-based production, separation, and analysis will be provided. Addition to, challenges relate to large-scale manufacturing of cell membrane-based nanomaterials and future clinical trial of such platforms will be discussed.

810. Bacterial cellulose composite hydrogel for pre-concentration and mass spectrometric detection of thiol-containing biomarker.
Abstract: Simple soaking of bacterial cellulose (BC) membrane in carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) solution yielded BC/CMC hydrogel having re-swellable property. Then, gold nanoparticles (AuNPs) were embedded in the BC/CMC hydrogel via in situ chemical reduction to form BC/CMC/AuNPs composite hydrogel. It was found that the composite hydrogel exhibited physical/chemical characteristics similar to those of BC. The AuNPs with an average diameter of 13 nm distributed uniformly within the BC/CMC matrix as verified by transmission electron microscopy. The novelty of this work is the application of the BC/CMC/AuNPs composite hydrogel for selective adsorption of an important thiol-containing biomarker of Alzheimer's disease, glutathione (GSH), prior to direct laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometric (LDI-MS) detection. GSH adsorbed in the BC/CMC/AuNPs composite hydrogel showed the high ionization signal in LDI-MS providing a linear range of 50-10,000 nM with a limit of detection as low as 54.1 nM, which is a cut-off level for distinguishing between normal individuals and Alzheimer's patients. It should be emphasized that an additional matrix was not necessary as AuNPs can act as self-matrix for LDI-MS analysis. Furthermore, the BC/CMC/AuNPs composite hydrogel can effectively preconcentrate GSH approximately 10 times upon adsorption allowing for ultrasensitive detection of GSH required for disease diagnosis.

811. Antagonism of a key peptide 'T14' driving neurodegeneration: Evaluation of a next generation therapeutic.
Abstract: T14, a 14mer peptide derived from the C-terminus of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is a signalling molecule that could drive neurodegeneration via the alpha 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor. Its levels increase as Alzheimer's pathology progresses; however, a cyclic variant of the compound, NBP14, can block the effects of the endogenous linear counterpart in-vitro, ex vivo, and in vivo. Here, we explore the antagonistic potential of two 6mer peptides, NBP6A and NBP6B. These are smaller linear versions of NBP14, designed to be more effective by modifying the amino acid residues to enhance receptor blockade alongside other relevant solubility parameters. The peptides were tested in-vitro in PC12 cells on three parameters, calcium influx, cell viability, and AChE release, and ex vivo using voltage sensitive dye imaging (VSDI) in rat brain slices. Neither NBP6A nor NBP6B applied alone had any effect. In PC12 cells, NBP6B was identified as the more potent molecule since it demonstrated more effective blockade of T14 action on calcium influx, cell viability, and AChE release. NBP6B was then further evaluated using VSDI, where it proved twice as potent as NBP14 in blocking the action of T14. The improved effect of NBP6B in blocking the actions of T14, combined with its smaller size suggests that this variant could have even greater therapeutic potential than its original cyclic compound, for treating neurodegenerative disorders.

812. Comparative safety of antimuscarinics versus mirabegron for overactive bladder in Parkinson disease.
Abstract: Overactive bladder (OAB) is a common non-motor symptom of Parkinson disease (PD), often treated with antimuscarinics or beta-3 agonists. There is lack of evidence to guide OAB management in PD.

813. Highly Effective and Efficient Self-Assembled Multilayer-Based Electrode Passivation for Operationally Stable and Reproducible Electrolyte-Gated Transistor Biosensors.
Abstract: To ensure the operational stability of transistor-based biosensors in aqueous electrolytes during multiple measurements, effective electrode passivation is crucially important for reliable and reproducible device performances. This paper presents a highly effective and efficient electrode passivation method using a facile solution-processed self-assembled multilayer (SAML) with excellent insulation property to achieve operational stability and reproducibility of electrolyte-gated transistor (EGT) biosensors. The SAML is created by the consecutive self-assembly of three different molecular layers of 1,10-decanedithiol, vinyl-polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxane, and 1-octadecanethiol. This passivation enables EGT to operate stably in phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) during repeated measurements over multiple cycles without short-circuiting. The SAML-passivated EGT biosensor is fabricated with a solution-processed In2O3 thin film as an amorphous oxide semiconductor working both as a semiconducting channel in the transistor and as a functionalizable biological interface for a bioreceptor. The SAML-passivated EGT including In2O3 thin film is demonstrated for the detection of Tau protein as a biomarker of Alzheimer's disease while employing a Tau-specific DNA aptamer as a bioreceptor and a PBS solution with a low ionic strength to diminish the charge-screening (Debye length) effect. The SAML-passivated EGT biosensor functionalized with the Tau-specific DNA aptamer exhibits ultrasensitive, quantitative, and reliable detection of Tau protein from 1 × 10-15 to 1 × 10-10 M, covering a much larger range than clinical needs, via changes in different transistor parameters. Therefore, the SAML-based passivation method can be effectively and efficiently utilized for operationally stable and reproducible transistor-based biosensors. Furthermore, this presented strategy can be extensively adapted for advanced biomedical devices and bioelectronics in aqueous or physiological environments.

814. ATP1A3 as a target for isolating neuron-specific extracellular vesicles from human brain and biofluids.
Abstract: Neuron-derived extracellular vesicles (NDEVs) are potential biomarkers of neurological diseases although their reliable molecular target is not well established. Here, we demonstrate that ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit alpha 3 (ATP1A3) is abundantly expressed in extracellular vesicles (EVs) isolated from induced human neuron, brain, cerebrospinal fluid, and plasma in comparison with the presumed NDEV markers NCAM1 and L1CAM by using super-resolution microscopy and biochemical assessments. Proteomic analysis of immunoprecipitated ATP1A3+ brain-derived EVs shows higher enrichment of synaptic markers and cargo proteins relevant to Alzheimer's disease (AD) compared to NCAM1+ or LICAM+ EVs. Single particle analysis shows the elevated amyloid-β positivity in ATP1A3+ EVs from AD plasma, providing better diagnostic prediction of AD over other plasma biomarkers. Thus, ATP1A3 is a reliable target to isolate NDEV from biofluids for diagnostic research.

815. Structural basis of insulin fibrillation.
Abstract: Insulin is a hormone responsible for maintaining normal glucose levels by activating insulin receptor (IR) and is the primary treatment for diabetes. However, insulin is prone to unfolding and forming cross-β fibers. Fibrillation complicates insulin storage and therapeutic application. Molecular details of insulin fibrillation remain unclear, hindering efforts to prevent fibrillation process. Here, we characterized insulin fibrils using cryo-electron microscopy (cryo-EM), showing multiple forms that contain one or more of the protofilaments containing both the A and B chains of insulin linked by disulfide bonds. We solved the cryo-EM structure of one of the fibril forms composed of two protofilaments at 3.2-Å resolution, which reveals both the β sheet conformation of the protofilament and the packing interaction between them that underlie the fibrillation. On the basis of this structure, we designed several insulin mutants that display reduced fibrillation while maintaining native IR signaling activity. These designed insulin analogs may be developed into more effective therapeutics for type 1 diabetes.

816. Mast cell deficiency improves cognition and enhances disease-associated microglia in 5XFAD mice.
Abstract: Emerging evidence suggests that peripheral immune cells contribute to Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuropathogenesis. Among these, mast cells are known for their functions in allergic reactions and neuroinflammation; however, little is known about their role in AD. Here, we crossed 5XFAD mice with mast cell-deficient strains and observed the effects on AD-related neuropathology and cognitive impairment. We found that mast cell depletion improved contextual fear conditioning in 5XFAD mice without affecting cued fear conditioning, anxiety-like behavior, or amyloid burden. Furthermore, mast cell depletion led to an upregulation of transcriptomic signatures for putatively protective disease-associated microglia and resulted in reduced markers indicative of reactive astrocytes. We hypothesize a system of bidirectional communication between dural mast cells and the brain, where mast cells respond to signals from the brain environment by expressing immune-regulatory mediators, impacting cognition and glial cell function. These findings highlight mast cells as potential therapeutic targets for AD.

817. Medicare Advantage Enrollment and Disenrollment Among Persons With Alzheimer Disease and Related Dementias.
Abstract: Large enrollment growth has been observed in the Medicare Advantage program, but less is known about enrollment patterns among persons with Alzheimer disease and related dementias (ADRD).

818. Bioluminescence Imaging with Functional Amyloid Reservoirs in Alzheimer's Disease Models.
Abstract: Bioluminescence imaging has changed the daily practice of preclinical research on cancer and other diseases over the last few decades; however, it has rarely been applied in preclinical research on Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this Article, we demonstrated that bioluminescence imaging could be used to report the levels of amyloid beta (Aβ) species in vivo. We hypothesized that AkaLumine, a newly discovered substrate for luciferase, could bind to Aβ aggregates and plaques. We further speculated that the Aβ aggregates/fibrils/plaques could be considered as "functional amyloids", which have a reservoir function to sequester and release AkaLumine to control the bioluminescence intensity, which could be used to report the levels of Aβs. Our hypotheses have been validated via in vitro solution tests, mimic studies with brain tissues and mice, two-photon imaging with AD mice, and in vivo bioluminescence imaging using transgenic AD mice that were virally transduced with AkaLuciferase (AkaLuc), a new luciferase that generates bioluminescence in the near-infrared window. As expected, compared to the control group, we observed that the Aβ group showed lower bioluminescence intensity due to AkaLumine sequestering at early time points, while higher intensity was due to AkaLumine releasing at later time points. Lastly, we demonstrated that this method could be used to monitor AD progression and the therapeutic effectiveness of avagacestat, a well-studied gamma-secretase inhibitor. Importantly, a good correlation (R2 = 0.81) was established between in vivo bioluminescence signals and Aβ burdens of the tested AD mice. We believe that our approach can be easily implemented into daily imaging experiments and has tremendous potential to change the daily practice of preclinical AD research.

819. Research Letter: TBI Severity Moderates the Association Between Subjective and Objective Attention in Older Veterans.
Abstract: This study examined the moderating effect of traumatic brain injury (TBI) history on subjective and objective cognition across multiple cognitive domains.

820. Exploring factors contributing to caregiver burden in family caregivers of congolese adults with suspected dementia.
Abstract: Predicting caregiver burden in individuals with suspected dementia - is critical due to the debilitating nature of these disorders and need for caregiver support. While some examination of the factors affecting burden has been undertaken in Sub-Saharan Africa, each country presents with its own unique challenges and obstacles. This pilot study investigates predictors of caregiver burden in family caregivers of individuals with suspected dementia living in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).

821. The neuroinflammatory astrocytic P2X7 receptor: Alzheimer's disease, ischemic brain injury, and epileptic state.
Abstract: Astrocytes have previously been considered as cells supporting neuronal functions, but they are now recognized as active players in maintaining central nervous system (CNS) homeostasis. Astrocytes can communicate with other CNS cells, i.e. through the gliotransmitter ATP and P2X7 receptors (Rs).

822. A natural polyphenol activates and enhances GPX4 to mitigate amyloid-β induced ferroptosis in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Ferroptosis, an iron-dependent cell death, plays a crucial role in the pathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Several characteristics of AD, including excessive iron accumulation, elevated lipid peroxide and reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, and decreased glutathione peroxidase 4 (GPX4) levels, align with the features of ferroptosis. While traditional methods of inhibiting ferroptosis have centered on chelating Fe and trapping radicals, therapeutic strategies that modulate the GPX4 axis to mitigate ferroptosis in AD are yet to be explored. This report introduces naturally occurring polyphenols (PPs) as dual-acting therapeutic agents to synergistically alleviate ferroptosis and AD. The mechanisms of action encompass modulation of amyloid and tau cascade, reduction of oxidative stress, mitochondrial rescue, and inhibition of ferroptosis. For the first time, we show that a single multifunctional molecule, tannic acid (TA) binds at the activator site of GPX4, augmenting both its activity and cellular levels, providing a conceptually innovative and integrated approach for treating AD via the GPX4-ferroptosis axis. The ability of TA to enhance GPX4 levels under conditions of AD pathology opens up newer promising therapeutic avenues for combating the crosstalk between ferroptosis and AD.

823. The neuroprotective effect of quercetin nanoparticles in the therapy of neuronal damage stimulated by acrolein.
Abstract: A gradual loss of neuronal function or structure causes neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's and Alzheimer's. Neurological damage might cause cell death. Acrolein is a high-risk air and water contaminant that causes neurodegenerative disorders. Quercetin has several strategies for treating neurodegenerative disorders but has limited bioavailability inside the body. One of the hypotheses offered to improve quercetin's bioavailability is to convert it into quercetin nanoparticles. This study aims to comprehend the immunohistochemical devastation that might arise in the cerebellum because of acrolein treatment. Furthermore, the protective and ameliorative roles of quercetin nanoparticles against oxidative stress and neurotoxicity induced in mice by acrolein were assessed. Ninety male albino rats weighing 120 to 200 g were used in the present investigation. The animals were split up into the following six groups: the control group, the acrolein-treated group: animals were given acrolein (3 mg/kg) for 30 days, quercetin nanoparticles treated group: animals were given quercetin nanoparticles (30 mg/kg) for 30 days. The administration of acrolein was found to be connected to immunohistochemical abnormalities in the cerebellum. Marked differences were observed in Bax, Bcl-2, TNF-α, and GFAP expressions in the cerebellum. Treatment of rats with quercetin nanoparticles either before or after treatment with acrolein has been found to preserve the cerebellum tissues from the toxic impacts and oxidative stress induced by acrolein. This may open the door to more nanomedicine studies and a new avenue for employing nanoparticles as a therapeutic intervention in neurodegenerative illnesses.

824. Characterization of norbelladine synthase and noroxomaritidine/norcraugsodine reductase reveals a novel catalytic route for the biosynthesis of Amaryllidaceae alkaloids including the Alzheimer's drug galanthamine.
Abstract: Amaryllidaceae alkaloids (AAs) are a large group of plant specialized metabolites with diverse pharmacological properties. Norbelladine is the entry compound in AAs biosynthesis and is produced from the condensation of tyramine and 3,4-dihydroxybenzaldehyde (3,4-DHBA). There are two reported enzymes capable of catalyzing this reaction in-vitro, both with low yield. The first one, norbelladine synthase (NBS), was shown to condense tyramine and 3,4-DHBA, while noroxomaritidine/norcraugsodine reductase (NR), catalyzes a reduction reaction to produce norbelladine. To clarify the mechanisms involved in this controversial step, both NBS and NR homologs were identified from the transcriptome of Narcissus papyraceus and Leucojum aestivum, cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. Enzymatic assays performed with tyramine and 3,4-DHBA with each enzyme separately or combined, suggested that NBS and NR function together for the condensation of tyramine and 3,4-DHBA into norcraugsodine and further reduction into norbelladine. Using molecular homology modeling and docking studies, we predicted models for the binding of tyramine and 3,4-DHBA to NBS, and of the intermediate norcraugsodine to NR. Moreover, we show that NBS and NR physically interact in yeast and in-planta, that both localize to the cytoplasm and nucleus and are expressed at high levels in bulbs, confirming their colocalization and co-expression thus their ability to work together in the same catalytic route. Finally, their co-expression in yeast led to the production of norbelladine. In all, our study establishes that both NBS and NR participate in the biosynthesis of norbelladine by catalyzing the first key steps associated in the biosynthesis of the Alzheimer's drug galanthamine.

825. Improved prediction of 5-year mortality by updating the chronic related score for risk profiling in the general population: lessons from the italian region of Lombardy.
Abstract: The aim of this study was to improve the performance of the Chronic Related Score (CReSc) in predicting mortality and healthcare needs in the general population.

826. Older adults' perspectives towards optimizing lifestyle behaviors and strategies to support healthy brain ageing during COVID-19 restrictions.
Abstract: It is unknown how the impact of COVID-19 restrictions has affected brain healthy behaviors that contribute to dementia risk reduction in older adults. Our aim was to explore perspectives of older adults on lifestyle behaviors that support positive brain health and dementia risk reduction during and following COVID-19 restrictions.

827. The protective role of GLP-1 in neuro-ophthalmology.
Abstract: Despite recent advancements in the field of neuro-ophthalmology, the rising rates of neurological and ophthalmological conditions, mismatches between supply and demand of clinicians, and an aging population underscore the urgent need to explore new therapeutic approaches within the field. Glucagon-like peptide 1 receptor agonists (GLP-1RAs), traditionally used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes, are becoming increasingly appreciated for their diverse applications. Recently, GLP-1RAs have been approved for the treatment of obesity and recognized for their cardioprotective effects. Emerging evidence indicates some GLP-1RAs can cross the blood-brain barrier and may have neuroprotective effects. Therefore, this article aims to review the literature on the neurologic and neuro-ophthalmic role of glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1). This article describes GLP-1 peptide characteristics and the mechanisms mediating its known role in increasing insulin, decreasing glucagon, delaying gastric emptying, and promoting satiety. This article identifies the sources and targets of GLP-1 in the brain and review the mechanisms which mediate its neuroprotective effects, as well as implications for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). Furthermore, the preclinical works which unravel the effects of GLP-1 in ocular dynamics and the preclinical literature regarding GLP-1RA use in the management of several neuro-ophthalmic conditions, including diabetic retinopathy (DR), glaucoma, and idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) are discussed.

828. MicroRNA-125a-3p modulate amyloid β-protein through the MAPK pathway in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: MicroRNA (miR)-125a-3p is reported to play an important role in some central nervous system diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, a study has not been conducted on the mechanism of miR-125a-3p in the pathological process of AD.

829. Ebselen: A Review on its Synthesis, Derivatives, Anticancer Efficacy and Utility in Combating SARS-COV-2.
Abstract: Ebselen is a selenoorganic chiral compound with antioxidant properties comparable to glutathione peroxidase. It is also known as 2-phenyl-1,2-benzisoselenazol-3(2H)-one. In studies examining its numerous pharmacological activities, including antioxidant, anticancer, antiviral, and anti-Alzheimer's, ebselen has demonstrated promising results. This review's primary objective was to emphasize the numerous synthesis pathways of ebselen and their efficacy in fighting cancer. The data were collected from multiple sources, including Scopus, PubMed, Google Scholar, Web of Science, and Publons. The starting reagents for the synthesis of ebselen are 2-aminobenzoic acid and N-phenyl benzamide. It was discovered that ebselen has the ability to initiate apoptosis in malignant cells and prevent the formation of new cancer cells by scavenging free radicals. In addition, ebselen increases tumor cell susceptibility to apoptosis by inhibiting TNF-α mediated NF-jB activation. Ebselen can inhibit both doxorubicin and daunorubicin-induced cardiotoxicity. Allopurinol and ebselen administered orally can be used to suppress renal ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity. Due to excessive administration, diclofenac can induce malignancy of the gastrointestinal tract, which ebselen can effectively suppress. Recent research has demonstrated ebselen to inhibit viral function by binding to cysteine-containing catalytic domains of various viral proteases. It was discovered that ebselen could inhibit the catalytic dyad function of Mpro by forming an irreversible covalent bond between Se and Cys145, thereby altering protease function and inhibiting SARS-CoV-2. Ebselen may also inhibit the activation of endosomal NADPH oxidase of vascular endothelial cells, which is believed to be required for thrombotic complications in COVID-19. In this review, we have included various studies conducted on the anticancer effect of ebselen as well as its inhibition of SARS-CoV-2.

830. Magnetic separation and concentration of Aβ 1-42 molecules dispersed at the threshold concentration for Alzheimer's disease diagnosis in clinically-relevant volumes of sample.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia and loss of autonomy in the elderly, implying a progressive cognitive decline and limitation of social activities. The progressive aging of the population is expected to exacerbate this problem in the next decades. Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop quantitative diagnostic methodologies to assess the onset the disease and its progression especially in the initial phases.

831. Astaxanthin attenuates cognitive deficits in Alzheimer's disease models by reducing oxidative stress via the SIRT1/PGC-1α signaling pathway.
Abstract: Oxidative stress plays a pivotal role in neurodegenerative diseases. Astaxanthin (AST) can play a neuroprotective role owing to its long-chain conjugated unsaturated double bond, which imparts potent antioxidant, anti-neuroinflammatory, and anti-apoptotic properties. However, the biological mechanisms underlying these effects remain unknown. Therefore, this study aimed to investigate and validate the protective effect of AST on neuronal senescence and apoptosis caused by oxidative stress induced by Aβ25-35 peptide, with the goal of preventing the onset of cognitive dysfunction.

832. Diagnostic Hesitancy of Primary Care Physicians in Puerto Rico Toward Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementias: Opportunities for Transformation.
Abstract: Migration of physicians in Puerto Rico makes it difficult to obtain specialized care for Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD). Primary care physicians (PCPs) can fill this gap, but there is limited information on how their beliefs and behaviors towards ADRD affect early diagnostic practices. Using the Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB), we addressed salient beliefs of PCPs that affect their intention to diagnose ADRD early, defined as "performing the recommended clinical testing to diagnose ADRD within 3 months from the patient's first subjective memory complaint".

833. Biostatistical Estimation of Tau Threshold Hallmarks (BETTH) Algorithm for Human Tau PET Imaging Studies.
Abstract: Abstract not available for PMID: 37709531

834. Using co-creation focus groups to customise a remote multidomain programme designed to increase dementia literacy.
Abstract: To adapt the content and functionalities of Brain Health PRO, a web-based multidomain program designed to increase dementia literacy, to the context and needs of users, providers and community organisations across Québec, Canada.

835. Evaluation of hearing levels and vestibular function and the impact on cognitive performance in (pre)-symptomatic patients with DFNA9: protocol for a prospective longitudinal study (Rosetta study).
Abstract: Untreated hearing loss is the largest potentially modifiable risk factor for dementia. Additionally, vestibular dysfunction has been put forward as a potential risk factor for accelerated cognitive decline. Patients with Deafness Autosomal Dominant 9 (DFNA9) present with progressive sensorineural hearing loss and bilateral vestibulopathy and show significantly worse results in cognitive performance compared with a cognitively healthy control group. This highlights the need for adequate treatment to prevent further cognitive decline. This study aims to determine how hearing and vestibular function evolve in (pre-)symptomatic carriers of the p.Pro51Ser mutation in the COCH gene and how this impacts their cognitive performance and health-related quality of life.

836. Blended intervention based on acceptance and commitment therapy for informal caregivers of people with dementia (ACT-IC): protocol of a mixed-methods feasibility study.
Abstract: Numerous caregiver support programmes have shown promise in promoting the mental health of informal caregivers of people with dementia (PwD). However, there is still a lack of evidence-based interventions tailored to the specific needs of this population. This mixed-methods study aims to evaluate the feasibility, acceptability and preliminary efficacy of a blended intervention based on acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT) for informal caregivers of PwD, leading to a better understanding of intervention refinements for future controlled trials.

837. Association between Dental Diseases and Oral Hygiene Care and the Risk of Dementia: A Retrospective Cohort Study.
Abstract: To investigate the associations of dental diseases and oral hygiene care with the risk of dementia.

838. Advancements in computer-assisted diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: A comprehensive survey of neuroimaging methods and AI techniques for early detection.
Abstract: Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is a brain disorder that causes the brain to shrink and eventually causes brain cells to die. This neurological condition progressively hampers cognitive and memory functions, along with the ability to carry out fundamental tasks over time. From the symptoms it is very difficult to detect during its early stage. It has become necessary to develop a computer assisted diagnostic models for the early AD detection. This survey work, discussed about a review of 110 published AD detection methods and techniques from the year 2011 to till-date. This study lies in its comprehensive exploration of AD detection methods using a range of artificial intelligence (AI) techniques and neuroimaging modalities. By collecting and analysing 50 papers related to AD diagnosis datasets, the study provides a comprehensive understanding of the diversity of input types, subjects, and classes used in AD research. Summarizing 60 papers on methodologies gives researchers a succinct overview of various approaches that contribute to enhancing detection accuracy. From the review, data are acquired and pre-processed form multiple modalities of neuroimaging. This paper mainly focused on review of different datasets used, various feature extraction methods, parameters used in neuro images. To diagnosis the Alzheimer's disease, the existing methods utilized three most common artificial intelligence techniques such as machine learning, deep learning, and transfer learning. We conclude this survey work by providing future perspectives for AD diagnosis at early stage.

839. Improving Alzheimer Diagnoses With An Interpretable Deep Learning Framework: Including Neuropsychiatric Symptoms.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a prevalent neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the progressive cognitive decline. Among the various clinical symptoms, neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) commonly occur during the course of AD. Previous researches have demonstrated a strong association between NPS and severity of AD, while the research methods are not sufficiently intuitive. Here, we report a hybrid deep learning framework for AD diagnosis using multimodal inputs such as structural MRI, behavioral scores, age, and gender information. The framework uses a 3D convolutional neural network to automatically extract features from MRI. The imaging features are passed to the Principal Component Analysis for dimensionality reduction, which fuse with non-imaging information to improve the diagnosis of AD. According to the experimental results, our model achieves an accuracy of 0.91 and an area under the curve of 0.97 in the task of classifying AD and cognitively normal individuals. SHapley Additive exPlanations are used to visually exhibit the contribution of specific NPS in the proposed model. Among all behavioral symptoms, apathy plays a particularly important role in the diagnosis of AD, which can be considered a valuable factor in further studies, as well as clinical trials.

840. Gelatin/polyethylene glycol-loaded magnesium hydroxide nanocomposite to attenuate acetylcholinesterase, neurotoxicity, and activation of GPR55 protein in rat models of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease marked by mitochondrial dysfunction, amyloid-β (Aβ) aggregation, and neuronal cell loss. G-protein-coupled receptor 55 (GPR55) has been used as a promising target for insulin receptors in diabetes therapy, but GPR55's role in AD is still unidentified. Gelatin (GE) and polyethylene glycol (PEG) polymeric hydrogels are commonly used in the drug delivery system. Therefore, the aim of the present study was the preparation of magnesium hydroxide nanocomposite using Clitoria ternatea (CT) flower extract, GE, and PEG (GE/PEG/Mg(OH)2NCs) by the green precipitation method. The synthesized GE/PEG/Mg(OH)2NCs were used to determine the effect of GPR55 activation of intracerebroventricular administration on streptozotocin (ICV-STC)-induced cholinergic dysfunction, oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and cognitive deficits. The GE/PEG/Mg(OH)2NCs were administered following bilateral ICV-STC administration (3 mg/kg) in experimental rats. Neurobehavioral assessments were performed using a Morris water maze (MWM) and a passive avoidance test (PA). Cholinergic and antioxidant activity, oxidative stress, and mitochondrial complex activity were estimated in the cortex and hippocampus through biochemical analysis. Inflammatory markers (TNF-α, IL-6, and IL-1β) were determined using the ELISA method. Our study results demonstrated that the GE/PEG/Mg(OH)2NCs treatment significantly improved spatial and non-spatial memory functions in behavioral studies. Moreover, the treatment with GE/PEG/Mg(OH)2NCs group significantly attenuated cholinergic dysfunction, oxidative stress, and inflammatory markers, and also highly improved anti-oxidant activity (GSH, SOD, CAT, and GPx) in the cortex and hippocampus regions. The western blot results suggest the activation of the GPR55 protein expression through GE/PEG/Mg(OH)2NCs. The histopathological studies showed clear cytoplasm and healthy neurons, effectively promoting neuronal activity. Furthermore, the molecular docking results demonstrated the binding affinity and potential interactions of the compounds with the AChE enzyme. In conclusion, the GE/PEG/Mg(OH)2NCs treated groups showed reduced neurotoxicity and have the potential as a therapeutic agent to effectively target AD.

841. Therapeutic potential of lithium chloride and valproic acid against neuronopathic types of mucopolysaccharidoses through induction of the autophagy process.
Abstract: Mucopolysaccharidoses (MPS) are a group of inherited disorders, caused by mutations in the genes coding for proteins involved (directly or indirectly) in glycosaminoglycan (GAG) degradation. A lack or drastically decreased residual activity of a GAG-degrading enzyme leads to the storage of these compounds, thus damaging proper functions of different cells, including neurons. The disease leads to serious psycho-motor dysfunctions and death before reaching the adulthood. Until now, induction of the autophagy process was considered as one of the therapeutic strategies for treatment of diseases caused by protein aggregation (Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's diseases). However, this strategy has only been recently suggested as a potential therapy for MPS. In this work, we show that the pharmacological stimulation of autophagy, by using valproic acid and lithium chloride, led to accelerated degradation of accumulated GAGs. Cytotoxicity tests indicated the safety of the use of the investigated compounds. We observed an increased number of lysosomes and enhanced degradation of heparan sulfate (one of GAGs). Induction of the autophagy process was confirmed by measuring abundance of the marker proteins, including LC3-II. Moreover, inhibition of this process resulted in abolition of the valproic acid- and LiCl-mediated reduction in GAG levels. This is the first report on the possibility of using valproic acid and lithium chloride for reducing levels of GAGs in neuronopathic forms of MPS.

842. Orexin Receptor Antagonism: Normalizing Sleep Architecture in Old Age and Disease.
Abstract: Sleep is essential for human well-being, yet the quality and quantity of sleep reduce as age advances. Older persons (>65 years old) are more at risk of disorders accompanied and/or exacerbated by poor sleep. Furthermore, evidence supports a bidirectional relationship between disrupted sleep and Alzheimer's disease (AD) or related dementias. Orexin/hypocretin neuropeptides stabilize wakefulness, and several orexin receptor antagonists (ORAs) are approved for the treatment of insomnia in adults. Dysregulation of the orexin system occurs in aging and AD, positioning ORAs as advantageous for these populations. Indeed, several clinical studies indicate that ORAs are efficacious hypnotics in older persons and dementia patients and, as in adults, are generally well tolerated. ORAs are likely to be more effective when administered early in sleep/wake dysregulation to reestablish good sleep/wake-related behaviors and reduce the accumulation of dementia-associated proteinopathic substrates. Improving sleep in aging and dementia represents a tremendous opportunity to benefit patients, caregivers, and health systems. Expected final online publication date for the Annual Review of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Volume 64 is January 2024. Please see http://www.annualreviews.org/page/journal/pubdates for revised estimates.

843. MEG3 activates necroptosis in human neuron xenografts modeling Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Neuronal cell loss is a defining feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. We xenografted human or mouse neurons into the brain of a mouse model of AD. Only human neurons displayed tangles, Gallyas silver staining, granulovacuolar neurodegeneration (GVD), phosphorylated tau blood biomarkers, and considerable neuronal cell loss. The long noncoding RNA MEG3 was strongly up-regulated in human neurons. This neuron-specific long noncoding RNA is also up-regulated in AD patients. MEG3 expression alone was sufficient to induce necroptosis in human neurons in vitro. Down-regulation of MEG3 and inhibition of necroptosis using pharmacological or genetic manipulation of receptor-interacting protein kinase 1 (RIPK1), RIPK3, or mixed lineage kinase domain-like protein (MLKL) rescued neuronal cell loss in xenografted human neurons. This model suggests potential therapeutic approaches for AD and reveals a human-specific vulnerability to AD.

844. Role for cell death pathway in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Human neurons transplanted into mice with amyloid plaques die by necroptosis.

845. Lower middle cerebral artery blood velocity during low-volume high-intensity interval exercise in chronic stroke.
Abstract: High-intensity interval training (HIIE) may present unique challenges to the cerebrovascular system in individuals post-stroke. We hypothesized lower middle cerebral artery blood velocity (MCAv) in individuals post-stroke: 1) during 10 minutes of HIIE, 2) immediately following HIIE, and 3) 30 minutes after HIIE, compared to age- and sex-matched controls (CON). We used a recumbent stepper submaximal exercise test to determine workloads for high-intensity and active recovery. Our low volume HIIE protocol consisted of 1-minute intervals for 10 minutes. During HIIE, we measured MCAv, mean arterial pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR), and end tidal carbon dioxide (PETCO2). We assessed carotid-femoral pulse wave velocity as a measure of arterial stiffness. Fifty participants completed the study (25 post-stroke, 76% ischemic, 32% moderate disability). Individuals post-stroke had lower MCAv during HIIE compared to CON (p = 0.03), which remained 30 minutes after HIIE. Individuals post-stroke had greater arterial stiffness (p = 0.01) which was moderately associated with a smaller MCAv responsiveness during HIIE (r = -0.44). No differences were found for MAP, HR, and PETCO2. This study suggests individuals post-stroke had a lower MCAv during HIIE compared to their peers, which remained during recovery up to 30 minutes. Arterial stiffness may contribute to the lower cerebrovascular responsiveness post-stroke.

846. A causal inference study: The impact of the combined administration of Donepezil and Memantine on decreasing hospital and emergency department visits of Alzheimer's disease patients.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease is the most common type of dementia that currently affects over 6.5 million people in the U.S. Currently there is no cure and the existing drug therapies attempt to delay the mental decline and improve cognitive abilities. Two of the most commonly prescribed such drugs are Donepezil and Memantine. We formally tested and confirmed the presence of a beneficial drug-drug interaction of Donepezil and Memantine using a causal inference analysis. We applied doubly robust estimators to one of the largest and high-quality medical databases to estimate the effect of two commonly prescribed Alzheimer's disease (AD) medications, Donepezil and Memantine, on the average number of hospital or emergency department visits per year among patients diagnosed with AD. Our results show that, compared to the absence of medication scenario, the Memantine monotherapy, and the Donepezil monotherapy, the combined use of Donepezil and Memantine treatment significantly reduces the average number of hospital or emergency department visits per year by 0.078 (13.8%), 0.144 (25.5%), and 0.132 days (23.4%), respectively. The assessed decline in the average number of hospital or emergency department visits per year is consequently associated with a substantial reduction in medical costs. As of 2022, according to the Alzheimer's Disease Association, there were over 6.5 million individuals aged 65 and older living with AD in the US alone. If patients who are currently on no drug treatment or using either Donepezil or Memantine alone were switched to the combined used of Donepezil and Memantine therapy, the average number of hospital or emergency department visits could decrease by over 613 thousand visits per year. This, in turn, would lead to a remarkable reduction in medical expenses associated with hospitalization of AD patients in the US, totaling over 940 million dollars per year.

847. Evaluation of the Electronic Clinical Dementia Rating for Dementia Screening.
Abstract: The Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) is a well-validated instrument widely used to detect and stage dementia due to Alzheimer disease. The digital Electronic Clinical Dementia Rating (eCDR) can be remotely self-administered and automatically scored, with potential to facilitate efficient dementia screening and staging.

848. Neuroprotection by Polyherbal Medicine Divya-Medha-Vati Against Scopolamine-Induced Cognitive Impairment Through Modulation of Oxidative Stress, Acetylcholine Activity, and Cell Signaling.
Abstract: Alzheimer disease is associated with cognitive impairments and neuronal damages. In this study, Scopolamine, a model drug used for the generation of Alzheimer-like symptoms induced cognitive dysfunction in C57BL/6 mice. It also elevated acetylcholine esterase (AcHE) activity, and reduced antioxidant (superoxide dismutase and catalase) activity in cortex tissue. Scop reduced neuronal density and increased pyknotic neurons in hippocampus tissue. In mouse neuroblastoma (Neuro2a) cells, Scop triggered a dose-dependent loss of cell viability and neurite outgrowth reduction. Scop-treated Neuro2a cells showed oxidative stress and reduction in mRNA expression for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), nerve growth factor-1 (NGF-1), and Synapsin-1 (SYN-1) genes. Mice treated with Divya-Medha-Vati (DMV), an Ayurvedic polyherbal medicine showed protection against Scop-induced cognitive impairment (Morris Water Maze Escape Latency, and Elevated Plus Maze Transfer Latency). DMV protected against Scop-induced AcHE activity, and loss of antioxidant activities in the mice brain cortex while sustaining neuronal density in the hippocampus region. In the Neuro2a cells, DMV reduced Scop-induced loss of cell viability and neurite outgrowth loss. DMV protected the cells against induction of oxidative stress and promoted mRNA expression of BDNF, NGF-1, and SYN-1 genes. Phytochemical profiling of DMV showed the presence of Withanolide A, Withanolide B, Bacopaside II, Jujubogenin, Apigenin, Gallic acid, Caffeic acid, and Quercetin that are associated with antioxidant and neurostimulatory activities. In conclusion, the study showed that Divya-Medha-Vati was capable of promoting neuronal health and inhibiting Alzheimer-like cognitive dysfunction through enhanced antioxidant activities and modulation of neuronal activities.

849. Folic Acid and Folinic Acid Protect Hearts of Aging Triple-transgenic Alzheimer's Disease mice via IGF1R/PI3K/AKT and SIRT1/AMPK Pathways.
Abstract: Patients with Alzheimer's disease have increased risk of developing heart disease, which therefore highlights the need for strategies aiming at reducing Alzheimer's disease-related cardiovascular disease. Folic acid and folinic acid are beneficial to the heart. We aimed to investigate the benefits of folic acid and folinic acid in heart of patients with late-stage Alzheimer's disease. Twelve 16-month-old mice of triple-transgenic late-stage Alzheimer's disease were divided into three groups: Alzheimer's disease group, Alzheimer's disease + folic acid group, and Alzheimer's disease + folinic acid group. The mice were administered 12 mg/kg folic acid or folinic acid once daily via oral gavage for 3 months. In the folic acid and folinic acid treatment groups, the intercellular space was reduced, compared with the Alzheimer's disease group. TUNEL assay and western blot images showed that the number of apoptotic cells and the apoptosis-related protein expression were higher in the Alzheimer's disease group than in other two treated groups. Folic acid and folinic acid induced the IGF1R/PI3K/AKT and SIRT1/ AMPK pathways in the hearts of mice with Alzheimer's disease. Our results showed that folic acid and folinic acid treatment increased survival and SIRT1 expression to reduce apoptotic proteins in the heart. The aging mice treated with folinic acid had more IGF1R and SIRT1/AMPK axes to limit myocardial cell apoptosis. In conclusion, folic acid and folinic acid promote cardiac cell survival and prevent apoptosis to inhibit heart damage in aging mice with triple-transgenic late-stage Alzheimer's disease. In particular, folinic acid provides a better curative effect than folic acid.

850. Neuropathological substrate of incident dementia in older patients with schizophrenia: A clinicopathological study.
Abstract: Clinical studies reported that patients with schizophrenia are at a higher risk of developing dementia than people without schizophrenia. However, early neuropathological studies have shown that the incidence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in schizophrenia patients does not differ from that in controls. These inconsistent results may be attributable to the inclusion of non-AD dementia, but there have been few clinicopathological studies in older patients with schizophrenia based on the current neuropathological classification. This study aimed to investigate the neuropathological basis of incident dementia in older patients with schizophrenia.

851. Adipose tissue as a therapeutic target for vascular damage in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Adipose tissue has recently been recognized as an important endocrine organ that plays a crucial role in energy metabolism and in the immune response in many metabolic tissues. With this regard, emerging evidence indicates that an important crosstalk exists between the adipose tissue and the brain. However, the contribution of adipose tissue to the development of age-related diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, remains poorly defined. New studies suggest that the adipose tissue modulates brain function through a range of endogenous biologically active factors known as adipokines, which can cross the blood-brain barrier to reach the target areas in the brain or to regulate the function of the blood-brain barrier. In this review, we discuss the effects of several adipokines on the physiology of the blood-brain barrier, their contribution to the development of Alzheimer's disease and their therapeutic potential.

852. Cell primitive-based biomimetic nanomaterials for Alzheimer's disease targeting and therapy.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder, which is not just confined to the older population. Although developments have been made in AD treatment, various limitations remain to be addressed. These are partly contributed by biological hurdles, such as the blood-brain barrier and peripheral side effects, as well as by lack of carriers that can efficiently deliver the therapeutics to the brain while preserving their therapeutic efficacy. The increasing AD prevalence and the unavailability of effective treatments have encouraged researchers to develop improved, convenient, and affordable therapies. Functional materials based on primitive cells and nanotechnology are emerging as attractive therapeutics in AD treatment. Cell primitives possess distinct biological functions, including long-term circulation, lesion site targeting, and immune suppression. This review summarizes the challenges in the delivery of AD drugs and recent advances in cell primitive-based materials for AD treatment. Various cell primitives, such as cells, extracellular vesicles, and cell membranes, are presented together with their distinctive biological functions and construction strategies. Moreover, future research directions are discussed on the basis of foreseeable challenges and perspectives.

853. Classification of Alzheimer's disease stages from magnetic resonance images using deep learning.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive type of dementia characterized by loss of memory and other cognitive abilities, including speech. Since AD is a progressive disease, detection in the early stages is essential for the appropriate care of the patient throughout its development, going from asymptomatic to a stage known as mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and then progressing to dementia and severe dementia; is worth mentioning that everyone suffers from cognitive impairment to some degree as we age, but the relevant task here is to identify which people are most likely to develop AD. Along with cognitive tests, evaluation of the brain morphology is the primary tool for AD diagnosis, where atrophy and loss of volume of the frontotemporal lobe are common features in patients who suffer from the disease. Regarding medical imaging techniques, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans are one of the methods used by specialists to assess brain morphology. Recently, with the rise of deep learning (DL) and its successful implementation in medical imaging applications, it is of growing interest in the research community to develop computer-aided diagnosis systems that can help physicians to detect this disease, especially in the early stages where macroscopic changes are not so easily identified. This article presents a DL-based approach to classifying MRI scans in the different stages of AD, using a curated set of images from Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative and Open Access Series of Imaging Studies databases. Our methodology involves image pre-processing using FreeSurfer, spatial data-augmentation operations, such as rotation, flip, and random zoom during training, and state-of-the-art 3D convolutional neural networks such as EfficientNet, DenseNet, and a custom siamese network, as well as the relatively new approach of vision transformer architecture. With this approach, the best detection percentage among all four architectures was around 89% for AD vs. Control, 80% for Late MCI vs. Control, 66% for MCI vs. Control, and 67% for Early MCI vs. Control.

854. A meta-analysis of microarray datasets to identify biological regulatory networks in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Background: Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is an age-related progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by mental deterioration, memory deficit, and multiple cognitive abnormalities, with an overall prevalence of ∼2% among industrialized countries. Although a proper diagnosis is not yet available, identification of miRNAs and mRNAs could offer valuable insights into the molecular pathways underlying AD's prognosis. Method: This study aims to utilize microarray bioinformatic analysis to identify potential biomarkers of AD, by analyzing six microarray datasets (GSE4757, GSE5281, GSE16759, GSE28146, GSE12685, and GSE1297) of AD patients, and control groups. Furthermore, this study conducted gene ontology, pathways analysis, and protein-protein interaction network to reveal major pathways linked to probable biological events. The datasets were meta-analyzed using bioinformatics tools, to identify significant differentially expressed genes (DEGs) and hub genes and their targeted miRNAs'. Results: According to the findings, CXCR4, TGFB1, ITGB1, MYH11, and SELE genes were identified as hub genes in this study. The analysis of DEGs using GO (gene ontology) revealed that these genes were significantly enriched in actin cytoskeleton regulation, ECM-receptor interaction, and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Eventually, hsa-mir-122-5p, hsa-mir-106a-5p, hsa-mir-27a-3p, hsa-mir16-5p, hsa-mir-145-5p, hsa-mir-12-5p, hsa-mir-128-3p, hsa-mir 3200-3p, hsa-mir-103a-3p, and hsa-mir-9-3p exhibited significant interactions with most of the hub genes. Conclusion: Overall, these genes can be considered as pivotal biomarkers for diagnosing the pathogenesis and molecular functions of AD.

855. Design of aggregation-induced emission-active fluorogen-based nanoparticles for imaging and scavenging Alzheimer's β-amyloid by photo-oxygenation.
Abstract: Photo-oxygenation has emerged as an effective modality for scavenging Alzheimer's amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques. However, limitations of the current photo-oxidants, such as low Aβ-targeting and single functionality, hinder the scavenging of Aβ plaques via photo-oxygenation. Herein, based on an aggregation-induced emission (AIE)-active fluorogen (named TPMD), we designed AIE photo-oxidant nanoparticles (T-LD NPs) for Aβ imaging, inhibition, and disaggregation. The T-LD NPs were prepared by the assembly of hydrophobic TPMD with an Aβ-targeting peptide (LPPFD, L) conjugated amphiphilic polymer (DSPE-PEG). Such T-LD NPs could specifically label Aβ plaques for image-guided therapy. Under laser irradiation, T-LD NPs generated a plethora of reactive oxygen species (ROS), including 1O2, ˙OH, and O2˙-, to oxygenate Aβ species, leading to the potent inhibition of Aβ fibrillization, and significant alleviation of Aβ-mediated neurotoxicity (36% to 10% at 20 μg mL-1). Notably, T-LD NPs could rapidly disaggregate mature Aβ fibrils into fractured β-sheet rich aggregates via photo-oxygenation, resulting in alleviated cytotoxicity. In vivo studies revealed that the photo-activated T-LD NPs scavenged amyloid plaques in the transgenic C. elegans strain CL2006 and extended the lifespan by 4 days. Taken together, this multifunctional T-LD NP integrated Aβ-targeting, near-infrared fluorescence imaging, and photo-oxygenation, provides a new strategy for the development of multifunctional AIE photo-oxidants for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease.

856. Assessing Alzheimer's Disease Knowledge and Cognitive Risk Among a Rural Older Afro-Caribbean Cohort.
Abstract: Older, rural Afro-Caribbeans are a growing subset of the Black population who face increased risk for Alzheimer's disease and related dementias (ADRD), but research targeting ADRD is scarce in this group. The purpose of this study was to investigate dementia risk among older Afro-Caribbeans living in a rural area. We also examined age, sex, and years of education, and knowledge about Alzheimer's disease as potential predictors of dementia risk.

857. Resting state EEG as biomarker of cognitive training and physical activity's joint effect in Parkinson's patients with mild cognitive impairment.
Abstract: Cognitive decline is a major factor for the deterioration of the quality of life in patients suffering from Parkinson's disease (PD). Recently, it was reported that cognitive training (CT) in PD patients with mild cognitive impairment (PD-MCI) led to an increase of physical activity (PA) accompanied by improved executive function (EF). Moreover, PA has been shown to alter positively brain function and cognitive abilities in PD. Both observations suggest an interaction between CT and PA.

858. Proteomic alterations in the brain and blood-brain barrier during brain Aβ accumulation in an APP knock-in mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Blood-brain barrier (BBB) dysfunction is supposed to be an early event in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study aimed to investigate the relationship between BBB alterations and AD progression in terms of amyloid-β peptide (Aβ) accumulation in the brains of humanized amyloid precursor protein knock-in (APP-KI) mice.

859. Effectiveness of creative story therapy for dementia: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
Abstract: To conduct a meta-analysis of the effectiveness of creative story therapy versus routine nursing alone for the treatment of dementia.

860. Current and Future of "Turn-On" Based Small-Molecule Copper Probes for Cuproptosis.
Abstract: Increasing evidence shows that abnormal copper (Cu) metabolism is highly related to many diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Wilson's disease, hematological malignancies and Menkes disease. Very recently, cuproptosis, a Cu-dependent, programmed cell death was firstly described by Tsvetkov et al. in 2022. Their findings may provide a new perspective for the treatment of related diseases. However, the concrete mechanisms of these diseases, especially cuproptosis, remain completely unclear, the reason of which may be a lack of reliable tools to conduct highly selective, sensitive and high-resolution imaging of Cu in complex life systems. So far, numerous small-molecular fluorescent probes have been designed and utilized to explore the Cu signal pathway. Among them, fluorescence turn-on probes greatly enhance the resolution and accuracy of imaging and may be a promising tool for research of investigation into cuproptosis. This review summarizes the probes developed in the past decade which have the potential to study cuproptosis, focusing on the design strategies, luminescence mechanism and biological-imaging applications. Besides, we put forward some ideas concerning the design of next-generation probes for cuproptosis, aiming to tackle the main problems in this new field. Furthermore, the prospect of cuproptosis in the treatment of corresponding diseases is also highlighted.

861. Lactobacillus-derived extracellular vesicles counteract Aβ42-induced abnormal transcriptional changes through the upregulation of MeCP2 and Sirt1 and improve Aβ pathology in Tg-APP/PS1 mice.
Abstract: Mounting evidence suggests that probiotics are beneficial for treating Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the mechanisms by which specific probiotics modify AD pathophysiology are not clearly understood. In this study, we investigated whether Lactobacillus paracasei-derived extracellular vesicles (Lpc-EV) can directly act on neuronal cells to modify amyloid-beta (Aβ)-induced transcriptional changes and Aβ pathology in the brains of Tg-APP/PS1 mice. Lpc-EV treatment in HT22 neuronal cells counteracts Aβ-induced downregulation of Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (Bdnf), Neurotrophin 3 (Nt3), Nt4/5, and TrkB receptor, and reverses Aβ-induced altered expression of diverse nuclear factors, including the downregulation of Methyl-CpG binding protein 2 (Mecp2) and Sirtuin 1 (Sirt1). Systematic siRNA-mediated knockdown experiments indicate that the upregulation of Bdnf, Nt3, Nt4/5, and TrkB by Lpc-EV is mediated via multiple epigenetic factors whose activation converges on Mecp2 and Sirt1. In addition, Lpc-EV reverses Aβ-induced downregulation of the Aβ-degrading proteases Matrix metalloproteinase 2 (Mmp-2), Mmp-9, and Neprilysin (Nep), whose upregulation is also controlled by MeCP2 and Sirt1. Lpc-EV treatment restores the downregulated expression of Bdnf, Nt4/5, TrkB, Mmp-2, Mmp-9, and Nep; induces the upregulation of MeCP2 and Sirt1 in the hippocampus; alleviates Aβ accumulation and neuroinflammatory responses in the brain; and mitigates cognitive decline in Tg-APP/PS1 mice. These results suggest that Lpc-EV cargo contains a neuroactive component that upregulates the expression of neurotrophic factors and Aβ-degrading proteases (Mmp-2, Mmp-9, and Nep) through the upregulation of MeCP2 and Sirt1, and ameliorates Aβ pathology and cognitive deficits in Tg-APP/PS1 mice.

862. CSF proteome profiling reveals biomarkers to discriminate dementia with Lewy bodies from Alzheimer´s disease.
Abstract: Diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is challenging and specific biofluid biomarkers are highly needed. We employed proximity extension-based assays to measure 665 proteins in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from patients with DLB (n = 109), Alzheimer´s disease (AD, n = 235) and cognitively unimpaired controls (n = 190). We identified over 50 CSF proteins dysregulated in DLB, enriched in myelination processes among others. The dopamine biosynthesis enzyme DDC was the strongest dysregulated protein, and could efficiently discriminate DLB from controls and AD (AUC:0.91 and 0.81 respectively). Classification modeling unveiled a 7-CSF biomarker panel that better discriminate DLB from AD (AUC:0.93). A custom multiplex panel for six of these markers (DDC, CRH, MMP-3, ABL1, MMP-10, THOP1) was developed and validated in independent cohorts, including an AD and DLB autopsy cohort. This DLB CSF proteome study identifies DLB-specific protein changes and translates these findings to a practicable biomarker panel that accurately identifies DLB patients, providing promising diagnostic and clinical trial testing opportunities.

863. Orthosiphon aristatus (Blume) Miq. Extracts attenuate Alzheimer-like pathology through anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidative, and β-amyloid inhibitory activities.
Abstract: Orthosiphon aristatus (Blume) Miq. (OA) is a traditional folk-herb, which is usually used to treat acute and chronic nephritis, epilepsy, cystitis, and other diseases. Phenols and flavonoids are the main active compound compounds of OA, with proven anti-inflammatory and antioxidant activities.

864. A review of studies on the implication of NLRP3 inflammasome for Parkinson's disease and related candidate treatment targets.
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a neurodegenerative disease for which the prevalence is second only to Alzheimer's disease (AD). This disease primarily affects people of middle and old age, significantly impacting their health and quality of life. The main pathological features include the degenerative nigrostriatal dopaminergic (DA) neuron loss and Lewy body (LB) formation. Currently, available PD medications primarily aim to alleviate clinical symptoms, however, there is no universally recognized therapy worldwide that effectively prevents, clinically treats, stops, or reverses the disease. Consequently, the evaluation and exploration of potential therapeutic targets for PD are of utmost importance. Nevertheless, the pathophysiology of PD remains unknown, and neuroinflammation mediated by inflammatory cytokines that prompts neuron death is fundamental for the progression of PD. The nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like receptor pyrin domain-containing 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome is a key complex of proteins linking the neuroinflammatory cascade in PD. Moreover, mounting evidence suggests that traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) alleviates PD by suppressing the NLRP3 inflammasome. This article aims to comprehensively review the available studies on the composition and activating mechanism of the NLRP3 inflammasome, along with its significance in PD pathogenesis and potential treatment targets. We also review natural products or synthetic compounds which reduce neuroinflammation via modulating NLRP3 inflammasome activity, aiming to identify new targets for future PD diagnosis and treatment through the exploration of NLRP3 inhibitors. Additionally, this review offers valuable references for developing new PD treatment methods.

865. Plaque attack by microglial PLCγ2.
Abstract: PLCγ2 is genetically linked to Alzheimer's disease (AD), but it is unclear how PLCγ2 contributes to pathology. Tsai et al. demonstrate that AD-associated PLCG2 variants bidirectionally orchestrate microglial responses to plaques and impact neural function in an AD mouse model. This positions PLCγ2 as a key microglial signaling node and shows that targeting PLCγ2 could have therapeutic benefits in AD.

866. DE-JANet: A unified network based on dual encoder and joint attention for Alzheimer's disease classification using multi-modal data.
Abstract: Structural magnetic resonance imaging (sMRI), which can reflect cerebral atrophy, plays an important role in the early detection of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the information provided by analyzing only the morphological changes in sMRI is relatively limited, and the assessment of the atrophy degree is subjective. Therefore, it is meaningful to combine sMRI with other clinical information to acquire complementary diagnosis information and achieve a more accurate classification of AD. Nevertheless, how to fuse these multi-modal data effectively is still challenging. In this paper, we propose DE-JANet, a unified AD classification network that integrates image data sMRI with non-image clinical data, such as age and Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score, for more effective multi-modal analysis. DE-JANet consists of three key components: (1) a dual encoder module for extracting low-level features from the image and non-image data according to specific encoding regularity, (2) a joint attention module for fusing multi-modal features, and (3) a token classification module for performing AD-related classification according to the fused multi-modal features. Our DE-JANet is evaluated on the ADNI dataset, with a mean accuracy of 0.9722 and 0.9538 for AD classification and mild cognition impairment (MCI) classification, respectively, which is superior to existing methods and indicates advanced performance on AD-related diagnosis tasks.

867. Translational strategies and systems biology insights for blood-brain barrier opening and delivery in brain tumors and Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: The blood-brain barrier (BBB) plays a critical role in determining the effectiveness of systemic treatments for brain diseases. Over the years, several innovative approaches in BBB opening and drug delivery have been developed and progressed into clinical testing phases, including focused ultrasound (FUS) with circulating microbubbles, mannitol-facilitated delivery of anti-neoplastic drugs, receptor-mediated transcytosis (RMT) by antibody-drug conjugates (ADCs), and viral vectors for gene therapy. We provided a comprehensive review of the most recent clinical applications of these approaches in managing brain tumors and Alzheimer's disease (AD), two major devastating brain diseases. Moreover, the spatial-temporal molecular heterogeneity of the BBB under disease states emphasized the importance of utilizing emerging spatial systems biology approaches to unravel novel targets for intervention within BBB and tailor strategies for enhancing drug delivery to the brain. SEARCH STRATEGY AND SELECTION CRITERIA: Data for this Review were identified by searches of clinicaltrials.gov, MEDLINE, Current Contents, PubMed, and references from relevant articles using the search terms "blood-brain barrier", "CNS drug delivery", "BBB modulation", "clinical trials", "systems biology", "primary or metastatic brain tumors", "Alzheimer's disease". Abstracts and reports from meetings were included only when they related directly to previously published work. Only articles published in English between 1980 and 2023 were included.

868. Placebo analgesia and nocebo hyperalgesia in patients with Alzheimer disease and healthy participants.
Abstract: The role of placebo analgesia and nocebo hyperalgesia in patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) is largely unknown, with only few studies in the area. Therefore, this study aims to investigate to which extent placebo analgesia and nocebo hyperalgesia effects are present in patients experiencing mild-to-moderate AD. Twenty-one patients with AD (test population) and 26 healthy participants (HP; design validation) were exposed to thermal pain stimulation on 3 test days: Lidocaine condition (open/hidden lidocaine administration), capsaicin condition (open/hidden capsaicin administration), and natural history (no treatment), in a randomized, within-subject design. Open lidocaine and open capsaicin were accompanied by verbal suggestions for pain relief and pain increase, respectively. Expected pain and actual pain intensity were measured on a numerical rating scale (0-10). Placebo and nocebo effects were calculated as pain differences in open-hidden lidocaine and capsaicin, respectively, controlled for no treatment. Healthy participants obtained a placebo effect (P = 0.01) and a trend for a nocebo effect (P = 0.07). Patients with AD did not obtain a placebo effect (P = 0.44) nor a significant nocebo effect (P = 0.86). Healthy participants expected lower and higher pain with open vs hidden lidocaine and capsaicin, respectively (P < 0.001). The same expectation effects were seen in patients with AD (open vs hidden lidocaine, P = 0.008; open vs hidden capsaicin, P < 0.001). With a well-controlled experimental setting, this study suggests that patients with AD may not experience placebo analgesia effects. Nocebo hyperalgesia effects in patients with AD needs further research. These findings may have implications for the conduction of clinical trials and the treatment of patients with AD in clinical practice.

869. A microtubule stabilizer ameliorates protein pathogenesis and neurodegeneration in mouse models of repetitive traumatic brain injury.
Abstract: Tau pathogenesis is a hallmark of many neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although the events leading to initial tau misfolding and subsequent tau spreading in patient brains are largely unknown, traumatic brain injury (TBI) may be a risk factor for tau-mediated neurodegeneration. Using a repetitive TBI (rTBI) paradigm, we report that rTBI induced somatic accumulation of phosphorylated and misfolded tau, as well as neurodegeneration across multiple brain areas in 7-month-old tau transgenic PS19 mice but not wild-type (WT) mice. rTBI accelerated somatic tau pathology in younger PS19 mice and WT mice only after inoculation with tau preformed fibrils and AD brain-derived pathological tau (AD-tau), respectively, suggesting that tau seeds are needed for rTBI-induced somatic tau pathology. rTBI further disrupted axonal microtubules and induced punctate tau and TAR DNA binding protein 43 (TDP-43) pathology in the optic tracts of WT mice. These changes in the optic tract were associated with a decline of visual function. Treatment with a brain-penetrant microtubule-stabilizing molecule reduced rTBI-induced tau, TDP-43 pathogenesis, and neurodegeneration in the optic tract as well as visual dysfunction. Treatment with the microtubule stabilizer also alleviated rTBI-induced tau pathology in the cortices of AD-tau-inoculated WT mice. These results indicate that rTBI facilitates abnormal microtubule organization, pathological tau formation, and neurodegeneration and suggest microtubule stabilization as a potential therapeutic avenue for TBI-induced neurodegeneration.

870. Ferroptosis, Pyroptosis, and Cuproptosis in Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common type of dementia, is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive cognitive dysfunction. Epidemiological investigation has demonstrated that, after cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases, tumors, and other causes, AD has become a major health issue affecting elderly individuals, with its mortality rate acutely increasing each year. Regulatory cell death is the active and orderly death of genetically determined cells, which is ubiquitous in the development of living organisms and is crucial to the regulation of life homeostasis. With extensive research on regulatory cell death in AD, increasing evidence has revealed that ferroptosis, pyroptosis, and cuproptosis are closely related to the occurrence, development, and prognosis of AD. This paper will review the molecular mechanisms of ferroptosis, pyroptosis, and cuproptosis and their regulatory roles in AD to explore potential therapeutic targets for the treatment of AD.

871. Trazodone rescues dysregulated synaptic and mitochondrial nascent proteomes in prion neurodegeneration.
Abstract: The unfolded protein response (UPR) is rapidly gaining momentum as a therapeutic target for protein misfolding neurodegenerative diseases, in which its overactivation results in sustained translational repression leading to synapse loss and neurodegeneration. In mouse models of these disorders, from Alzheimer's to prion disease, modulation of the pathway - including by the licensed drug, trazodone - restores global protein synthesis rates with profound neuroprotective effects. However, the precise nature of the translational impairment, in particular the specific proteins affected in disease, and their response to therapeutic UPR modulation are poorly understood. We used non-canonical amino acid tagging (NCAT) to measure de novo protein synthesis in the brains of prion-diseased mice with and without trazodone treatment, in both whole hippocampus and cell-specifically. During disease the predominant nascent proteome changes occur in synaptic, cytoskeletal and mitochondrial proteins in both hippocampal neurons and astrocytes. Remarkably, trazodone treatment for just two weeks largely restored the whole disease nascent proteome in the hippocampus to that of healthy, uninfected mice, predominantly with recovery of proteins involved in synaptic and mitochondrial function. In parallel, trazodone treatment restored the disease-associated decline in synapses and mitochondria and their function to wildtype levels. In conclusion, this study increases our understanding of how translational repression contributes to neurodegeneration through synaptic and mitochondrial toxicity via depletion of key proteins essential for their function. Further, it provides new insights into the neuroprotective mechanisms of trazodone through reversal of this toxicity, relevant for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases via translational modulation.

872. Consumers Can Now Buy a Blood Test to Evaluate Their Alzheimer Disease Risk, but Should They?
Abstract: This Medical News feature discusses a Quest Diagnostics blood biomarkers test that is supposed to help consumers assess their Alzheimer disease risk.

873. The beneficial effect of 3,6'-Disinapoyl sucrose on the cognitive decline via CREB/BDNF signal pathway in APP/PS1 transgenic mice.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder with insidious onset and progressive development. There is an urgent need to find drugs that prevent, slow the progression of AD. We focus our attention on 3,6'-disinapoyl sucrose (DISS), an oligosaccharide with antidepressant and antioxidant activities. In this work, APP/PS1 transgenic mice were utilized to explore the neuroprotective impact of DISS to provide new applications for prevention and therapy of AD. To assess DISS's neuroprotective impact on learning and memory deficits in APP/PS1 transgenic mice using behavioral tests (Morris water maze, Novel object recognition test, and Passive avoidance test). Morphological alterations of hippocampus neurons were observed by Nissl staining and neuronal of apoptosis were assessed by TUNEL assay. By using ELISA, the expressions of inflammatory factors were evaluated, and Western blotting was used to measure the protein expressions of neuron-related regulators in the hippocampus. DISS significantly ameliorated the cognitive disorder in APP/PS1 transgenic mice, reduced apoptosis by decreasing the ratio of Bax/Bcl-2 in hippocampal neurons, and restored the abnormal secretion of inflammatory factors (IL-2, TNF-α, IL-1β, and IL-6). Moreover, the gavage of high-dose DISS can boost the expressions of CREB/BDNF. Overall, our results indicate that DISS improves cognitive function in APP/PS1 transgenic mice by inhibiting neural apoptosis and activating the CREB/BDNF signal pathway.

874. Is Gulf War Illness a prolonged early phase tauopathy?
Abstract: The work of the Gulf War Illness (GWI) Consortium and that of basic and clinical researchers across the USA have resulted in a better understanding in recent years of the pathological basis of GWI, as well as of the mechanisms underlying the disorder. Among the most concerning symptoms suffered by veterans with GWI are cognitive decrements including those related to memory functioning. These decrements are not severe enough to meet dementia criteria, but there is significant concern that the mild cognitive impairment of these veterans will progress to dementia as they become older. Recent studies on GWI using human brain organoids as well as a rat model suggest that one potential cause of the cognitive problems may be elevated levels of tau in the brain, and this is supported by high levels of tau autoantibodies in the blood of veterans with GWI. There is urgency in finding treatments and preventive strategies for these veterans before they progress to dementia, with added value in doing so because their current status may represent an early phase of tauopathy common to many neurodegenerative diseases.

875. Associations between Sedentary Duration and Cognitive Function in Older Adults: A Longitudinal Study with 2-Year Follow-Up.
Abstract: This study aimed to investigate the association between different forms of sedentary behavior and cognitive function in Chinese community-dwelling older adults.

876. Detection of Dietary Chalcone and Flavonoid Metabolites in Mice Using UPLC-MS/MS and Their Modulatory Effects on Amyloid β Aggregation.
Abstract: Amyloid β-protein (Aβ42) aggregates have been demonstrated to induce cognitive decline and neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Thus, functional food ingredients that inhibit Aβ42 aggregation are valuable for AD prevention. Although several food ingredients have been studied for their anti-aggregation activity, information on their bioavailability in the brain, incorporated forms, and relevance to AD etiology is limited. Here, we first detected the sulfate- and glucuronic-acid-conjugated forms of green perilla-derived chalcone (1) and taxifolin (2), which inhibit Aβ42 aggregation, in the brain, small intestine, and plasma of mice (1 and 2 were administered orally) using ultra-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. We observed that the conjugated metabolites (sulfate (4) and glucuronide (5)) of 1 prevented the fibrillization and oligomerization of Aβ42. These findings imply that the conjugated metabolites of 1 can prove beneficial for AD treatment.

877. Glial-derived neuroinflammation induced with amyloid-beta-peptide plus fibrinogen injection in rat hippocampus.
Abstract: The present study has examined microglial and astrocyte activation in association with neuronal degeneration in an animal model using an injection of amyloid-beta peptide Aβ1-42 (Aβ42) plus fibrinogen into rat hippocampus.

878. Role of BDNF signaling in the neuroprotective and memory-enhancing effects of flavonoids in Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Foods rich in flavonoids are associated with a reduced risk of various chronic diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). In fact, growing evidence suggests that consuming flavonoid-rich foods can beneficially affect normal cognitive function. Animal models have shown that many flavonoids prevent the development of AD-like pathology and improve cognitive deficits.

879. Exosomes Derived from M2 Microglial Cells Modulated by 1070-nm Light Improve Cognition in an Alzheimer's Disease Mouse Model.
Abstract: Near-infrared photobiomodulation has been identified as a potential strategy for Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the mechanisms underlying this therapeutic effect remain poorly characterize. Herein, it is illustrate that 1070-nm light induces the morphological alteration of microglia from an M1 to M2 phenotype that secretes exosomes, which alleviates the β-amyloid burden to improve cognitive function by ameliorating neuroinflammation and promoting neuronal dendritic spine plasticity. The results show that 4 J cm-2 1070-nm light at a 10-Hz frequency prompts microglia with an M1 inflammatory type to switch to an M2 anti-inflammatory type. This induces secretion of M2 microglial-derived exosomes containing miR-7670-3p, which targets activating transcription factor 6 (ATF6) during endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Moreover, it is found that miR-7670-3p reduces ATF6 expression to further ameliorate ER stress, thus attenuating the inflammatory response and protecting dendritic spine integrity of neurons in the cortex and hippocampus of 5xFAD mice, ultimately leading to improvements in cognitive function. This study highlights the critical role of exosomes derive from 1070-nm light-modulated microglia in treating AD mice, which may provide a theoretical basis for the treatment of AD with the use of near-infrared photobiomodulation.

880. Next-generation proteomics technologies in Alzheimer's disease: from clinical research to routine diagnostics.
Abstract: Clinical proteomics studies of Alzheimer's disease (AD) research aim to identify biomarkers useful for clinical research, diagnostics, and improve our understanding of the pathological processes involved in the disease. The rapidly increasing performance of proteomics technologies is likely to have great impact on AD research.

881. Effects of transcranial pulse stimulation on autism spectrum disorder: a double-blind, randomized, sham-controlled trial.
Abstract: Transcranial pulse stimulation has been proven effective to improve cognition, memory and depressive symptoms of Alzheimer's disease, but supporting evidence on other neurological diseases or neuropsychiatric disorders remains limited. This study aimed to investigate the effects of transcranial pulse stimulation on the right temporoparietal junction, which is a key node for social cognition for autism spectrum disorder, and to examine the association between transcranial pulse stimulation and executive and social functions. This double-blinded, randomized, sham-controlled trial included 32 participants (27 males), aged 12-17 years with autism spectrum disorder. All eligible participants were randomized into either the verum or sham transcranial pulse stimulation group, on a 1:1 ratio, based on the Childhood Autism Rating Scale screening score. Sixteen participants received six verum transcranial pulse stimulation sessions (energy level: 0.2-0.25 mJ/mm2; pulse frequency: 2.5-4.0 Hz, 800 pulse/session) in 2 weeks on alternate days. The remaining 16 participants received sham transcranial pulse stimulation. The primary outcome measure included Childhood Autism Rating Scale score changes, evaluated by parents, from baseline to 3-month follow-ups. Secondary outcomes included a self-reported questionnaire responded to by parents and cognitive tests responded to by participants. A licensed mental health professional evaluated clinical global impression severity, improvement, efficacy and total score. Results revealed significant interactions in Childhood Autism Rating Scale and other secondary outcomes. Significant group and time effects were found in most secondary outcomes. Additionally, significant differences were found between the transcranial pulse stimulation and sham transcranial pulse stimulation groups in Childhood Autism Rating Scale and clinical global impression improvement and total score immediately after 2 weeks of transcranial pulse stimulation intervention (all P < 0.05), and effects were sustainable at 1- and 3-month follow-up, compared with baseline. The effect size of Childhood Autism Rating Scale (d = 0.83-0.95) and clinical global impression improvement (d = 4.12-4.37) were large to medium immediately after intervention and sustained at 1-month post-stimulation; however, the effects were reduced to small at 3-month post-stimulation (d = 2.31). These findings indicated that transcranial pulse stimulation over right temporoparietal junction was effective to reduce the core symptoms of autism spectrum disorder, as evidenced by a 24% reduction in the total Childhood Autism Rating Scale score in the verum transcranial pulse stimulation group. Additionally, the clinical global impression total score was reduced by 53.7% in the verum transcranial pulse stimulation group at a 3-month follow-up, compared with the baseline. Participants in the verum transcranial pulse stimulation group had shown substantial improvement at 1- and 3-month follow-ups, compared with baseline, although some of the neuropsychological test results were deemed statistically insignificant. Future replication of this study should include a larger sample derived from multi-nations to determine transcranial pulse stimulation as an alternative top-on treatment option in neuropsychiatry.

882. In vitro and in silico cholinesterase inhibitory potential of metabolites from Laurencia snackeyi (Weber-van Bosse) M. Masuda.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease that causes deterioration in intelligence and psychological activities. Yet, till today, no cure is available for AD. The marine environment is an important sink of bioactive compounds with neuroprotective potential with reduced adverse effects. Recently, we collected the red algae Laurencia snackeyi from Terumbu Island, Malaysia which is known to be rich in halogenated metabolites making it the most sought-after red algae for pharmaceutical studies. The red alga was identified based on basic morphological characteristics, microscopic observation and chemical data from literature. The purplish-brown algae was confirmed a new record. In Malaysia, this species is poorly documented in Peninsular Malaysia as compared to its eastern continent Borneo. Thus, this study intended to investigate the diversity of secondary metabolites present in the alga and its cholinesterase inhibiting potential for AD. The extract inhibited both acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) with IC50 values of  14.45 ± 0.34 μg mL-1 and 39.59 ± 0.24 μg mL-1, respectively. Subsequently, we isolated the synderanes, palisadin A (1), aplysistatin (2) and 5-acetoxypalisadin B (3) that was not exhibit potential. Mass spectrometry analysis detected at total of 33 additional metabolites. The computational aided molecular docking using the AChE and BChE receptors on all metabolites shortlisted 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraynoic acid (31) and 15-hydroxy-1-[2-(hydroxymethyl)-1-piperidinyl]prost-13-ene-1,9-dione (42) with best inhibitory properties, respectively with the lowest optimal combination of S-score and RMSD values. This study shows the unexplored potential of marine natural resources, however, obtaining sufficient biomass for detailed investigation is an uphill task. Regardless, there is a lot of potential for future prospects with a wide range of marine natural resources to study and the incorporation of synthetic chemistry, in vivo studies in experimental design.

883. Pharmacological action of Hedysarum polysaccharides: a review.
Abstract: Hedysarum, a traditional Chinese herbal medicine and food with a long history of clinical application, is used to improve health conditions and treat various diseases. Hedysarum polysaccharides (HPS), flavonoids, saponins, and alkaloids, are the primary components of Hedysarum. HPS is the most important natural active ingredient of Hedysarum, which has many pharmacological effects. Currently, HPS exhibits significant promise in drug development for various ailments such as tumors, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, Alzheimer's disease, and fibrosis. This review paper discusses the extraction, separation, and content determination techniques of HPS, along with the investigation of its chemical constituents. More importantly, we reviewed the anti-inflammatory pharmacological effects of HPS, such as inhibition of inflammatory factors and NF-κB signaling pathway; antitumor activity through apoptosis induction in tumor cells and blocking tumor cell proliferation and metastasis; antioxidant effects; regulation of various cytokines and immune cells; regulation of blood sugar levels, such as in type I and type II diabetes and in diabetic complications; improvement in symptoms of Alzheimer disease; anti-aging and anti-fibrosis properties; and improvement in cerebral ischemia-reperfusion injury. This review paper establishes the theoretical foundation for future studies on the structure, mechanism, and clinical use of HPS.

884. NEK7 inhibition attenuates Aβ42-induced cognitive impairment by regulating TLR4/NF-κB and the NLRP3 inflammasome in mice.
Abstract: NEK7 is a serine/threonine kinase that regulates cell mitosis and the activation of the nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-like (NOD-like) receptor thermal protein domain associated protein 3 (NLRP3) inflammasome, and is related to neuroinflammation and neuronal damage. The purpose of this study was to explore the role and mechanism of NEK7 in cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease (AD). BV2 cells, a microglia cell line, was treated with Aβ42. NEK7 expression was measured with reverse transcription-quantitative polymerase chain reaction and Western blotting. An apoptosis kit was used to determine the apoptotic rate. APPswe/PS1dE9 (APP/PS1) transgenic mice were used as an in vivo AD model. The experimental mice were infected with sh-NEK7 lentivirus to downregulate NEK7. The Morris water maze was conducted to explore the effect of NEK7 downregulation on cognitive ability. The results showed that Aβ42 significantly upregulated NEK7 in BV2 cells. Silencing NEK7 suppressed the decrease in BV2 viability and the increase in inflammation, oxidative stress and apoptosis induced by Aβ42. NEK7 mediated it effects through the TLR4/NF-κB signalling pathway and the NLRP3 inflammasome. Finally, inhibition of NEK7 alleviated the cognitive impairment in APP/PS1 mice. In conclusion, Silencing NEK7 suppresses Aβ42-induced cell apoptosis, inflammation and oxidative stress, and improves cognitive performance in AD mice. NEK7 may be a potential target for AD treatment.

885. Identification and characterization of the conformation and size of amyloid-β (42) oligomers targeting the receptor LilrB2.
Abstract: Experimental observations revealed that the amyloid-β 42 oligomer (AβO) can directly bind to the LilrB2 D1D2(LDD) receptor with nanomolar-affinity, leading to changes in synaptic plasticity and cognitive deficits. However, the dependence of neurotoxicity on the morphology, size, and aggregation stage (SP1, SP2) of AβO, as well as the specific molecular mechanism of AβO-LDD interaction, remain uncertain. To address these uncertainties, we investigated the interaction between the LDD neuroreceptor and AβO with different Aβ42 species (nontoxic species, toxic species, and protofibril) and sizes. Our results showed that the LDD selectively binds AβO species rather than the Aβ42 monomer, accommodating various Aβ42 dimers and trimers as well as SP2 AβO, in a specific pose in the pocket of the LDD receptor (region I). Additionally, protofibrils with exposed β1/β2 regions can also bind to region I of the LDD receptor, as observed experimentally (Cao, et al., Nat. Chem., 2018, 10, 1213; and Aim et al., Nat. Commun., 2021, 12, 3451). More extensively, we identified two additional regions of the LDD receptor, regions II and III, suitable for binding to larger AβO species at the SP1 with different molecular weights and conformations, accounting for the stronger binding strength obtained experimentally. We suggest that the two regions are more competitive than region I in causing toxicity by AβO binding. The detailed and systematic characterization for the complexes generated between the LDD receptor and various AβO species, including the protofibril, offers deep insight into the dependence of neurotoxicity on the AβO size and conformation at the molecular level, and provides novel and specific targets for drug design of Alzheimer's disease.

886. A qualitative exploration of older people's lived experiences of homelessness and memory problems - stakeholder perspectives.
Abstract: The numbers of older people experiencing both homelessness and memory problems are growing, yet their complex health, housing and care needs remain undelineated and unmet. There is a critical gap in understanding what can improve the care, support and experiences of this group. In this qualitative study we explore how stakeholders understand memory problems among older people in the context of homelessness and consider what they judge gets in the way of achieving positive outcomes.

887. Alzheimer's Disease-Related Epigenetic Changes: Novel Therapeutic Targets.
Abstract: Aging is a significant risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD), although the precise mechanism and molecular basis of AD are not yet fully understood. Epigenetic mechanisms, such as DNA methylation and hydroxymethylation, mitochondrial DNA methylation, histone modifications, and non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs), play a role in regulating gene expression related to neuron plasticity and integrity, which are closely associated with learning and memory development. This review describes the impact of dynamic and reversible epigenetic modifications and factors on memory and plasticity throughout life, emphasizing their potential as target for therapeutic intervention in AD. Additionally, we present insight from postmortem and animal studies on abnormal epigenetics regulation in AD, as well as current strategies aiming at targeting these factors in the context of AD therapy.

888. Pharmacological inhibition of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 prevents memory deficits and reduces neuropathology in APP/PS1 mice.
Abstract: Extracellular proteolytic activity plays an important role in memory formation and the preservation of cognitive function. Previous studies have shown increased levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) in the brain of mouse models of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and plasma of AD patients, associated with memory and cognitive decline; however, the exact function of PAI-1 in AD onset and progression is largely unclear.

889. Genetic reduction of insulin signaling mitigates amyloid-β deposition by promoting expression of extracellular matrix proteins in the brain.
Abstract: The insulin/IGF-1 signaling (IIS) regulates a wide range of biological processes, including aging and lifespan, and has also been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We and others have reported that reduced signaling by genetic ablation of the molecules involved in IIS, e.g., insulin receptor substrate 2 (IRS-2), markedly mitigates amyloid plaque formation in the brains of mouse models of AD, although the molecular underpinnings of the amelioration remain unsolved. Here, we revealed by a transcriptomic analysis of the male murine cerebral cortices that the expression of genes encoding extracellular matrix (ECM) was significantly upregulated by the loss of IRS-2. Insulin signaling activity negatively regulated the phosphorylation of Smad2 and Smad3 in the brain, and suppressed TGF-β/Smad-dependent expression of a subset of ECM genes in brain-derived cells. The ECM proteins inhibited Aβ fibril formation in vitro, and IRS-2 deficiency suppressed the aggregation process of Aβ in the brains of male APP transgenic mice as revealed by injection of aggregation seeds in vivo Our results propose a novel mechanism in AD pathophysiology whereby IIS modifies Aβ aggregation and amyloid pathology by altering the expression of ECM genes in the brain.Significance StatementThe insulin/IGF-1 signaling (IIS) has been recognized as a regulator of aging, a leading risk factor for the onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In AD mouse models, genetic deletion of key IIS molecules markedly reduce the amyloid plaque formation in the brain, although the molecular underpinnings of this amelioration remain elusive. We found that the deficiency of insulin receptor substrate 2 (IRS-2) leads to an increase in the expression of various extracellular matrices (ECMs) in the brain, potentially through TGF-β/Smad signaling. Furthermore, some of those ECMs exhibited the potential to inhibit amyloid plaque accumulation by disrupting the formation of Aβ fibrils. This study presents a novel mechanism by which IIS regulates Aβ accumulation, which may involve altered brain ECM expression.

890. Characterization of structural changes occurring in insulin at different time intervals at room temperature by surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy.
Abstract: Insulin storage above the temperature recommended by food and drug administration (FDA) causes decrease in its functional efficacy due to degradation and aggregation of its protein based active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) that results poor glycemic control in diabetic patients. The aggregation of protein causes serious neurodegenerative diseases such as type-2 diabetes, Huntington disease, Parkinson's disease, and Alzheimer's disease. Surface-enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS) has been employed for the denaturation study of many proteins at the temperature above the recommendations of food and drug administration (FDA) (above 30 °C) which indicates potential of technique for such studies.

891. Association between sleep and Alzheimer's disease: A bibliometric analysis from 2003 to 2022.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) often presents with sleep disorders, which are also an important risk factor for AD, affecting cognitive function to a certain extent. This study aimed to reveal the current global status, present hotspots, and discuss emerging trends of sleep and AD using a bibliometric approach.

892. GTP1 metabolic stability assessment: A study of the tau PET tracer [18F]GTP1.
Abstract: Tau PET imaging using the tau specific PET tracer [18F]GTP1 has been and is part of therapeutic trials in Alzheimer's disease to monitor the accumulation of tau aggregates in the brain. Herein, we examined the metabolic processes of GTP1 and assessed the influence of smoking on its metabolism through in vitro assays. The tracer metabolic profile was assessed by incubating GTP1 with human liver microsomes (HLM) and human hepatocytes. Since smoking strongly stimulates the CYP1A2 enzyme activity, we incubated GTP1 with recombinant CYP1A2 to evaluate the role of the enzyme in tracer metabolism. It was found that GTP1 could form up to eleven oxidative metabolites with higher polarity than the parent. Only a small amount (2.6 % at 60 min) of a defluorinated metabolite was detected in HLM and human hepatocytes incubations highlighting the stability of GTP1 with respect to enzymatic defluorination. Moreover, the major GTP1 metabolites were not the product of CYP1A2 activity suggesting that smoking may not impact in vivo tracer metabolism and subsequently GTP1 brain kinetics.

893. Locus coeruleus activity while awake is associated with REM sleep quality in older individuals.
Abstract: The locus coeruleus (LC) is the primary source of norepinephrine in the brain and regulates arousal and sleep. Animal research shows that it plays important roles in the transition between sleep and wakefulness, and between slow wave sleep and rapid eye movement sleep (REMS). It is unclear, however, whether the activity of the LC predicts sleep variability in humans.

894. Use of Antihypertensives, Blood Pressure, and Estimated Risk of Dementia in Late Life: An Individual Participant Data Meta-Analysis.
Abstract: The utility of antihypertensives and ideal blood pressure (BP) for dementia prevention in late life remains unclear and highly contested.

895. The Role of Ubiquitin-Proteasome System and Mitophagy in the Pathogenesis of Parkinson's Disease.
Abstract: Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disease that is mainly in middle-aged people and elderly people, and the pathogenesis of PD is complex and diverse. The ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) is a master regulator of neural development and the maintenance of brain structure and function. Dysfunction of components and substrates of this UPS has been linked to neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease. Moreover, UPS can regulate α-synuclein misfolding and aggregation, mitophagy, neuroinflammation and oxidative stress to affect the development of PD. In the present study, we review the role of several related E3 ubiquitin ligases and deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs) on the pathogenesis of PD such as Parkin, CHIP, USP8, etc. On this basis, we summarize the connections and differences of different E3 ubiquitin ligases in the pathogenesis, and elaborate on the regulatory progress of different DUBs on the pathogenesis of PD. Therefore, we can better understand their relationships and provide feasible and valuable therapeutic clues for UPS-related PD treatment research.

896. Screening for Differentially Expressed Memory Genes on a Diabetes Model Induced by High-Sugar Diet in Drosophila melanogaster: Potential Markers for Memory Deficits.
Abstract: Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) has been shown to affect a series of cognitive processes including memory, increasing the risk for dementia, particularly Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although increasing evidence has supported that both diseases share common features, the pathophysiological mechanisms connecting these two disorders remain to be fully elucidated. Herein, we used Drosophila melanogaster fed on a high-sugar diet (HSD) to mimic T2DM, and investigate its effects on memory as well as identify potential molecular players associated with the memory deficits induced by HSD. Flies hatched from and reared on HSD for 7 days had a substantial decrease in short-term memory (STM). The screening for memory-related genes using transcriptome data revealed that HSD altered the expression of 33% of memory genes in relation to the control. Among the differentially expressed genes (DEGs) with a fold change (FC) higher than two, we found five genes, related to synapse and memory trace formation, that could be considered strong candidates to underlie the STM deficits in HSD flies: Abl tyrosine kinase (Abl), bruchpilot (Brp), minibrain (Mnb), shaker (Sh), and gilgamesh (Gish). We also analyzed genes from the dopamine system, one of the most relevant signaling pathways for olfactory memory. Interestingly, the flies fed on HSD presented a decreased expression of the Tyrosine hydroxylase (Ple) and Dopa decarboxylase (Ddc) genes, signals of a possible dopamine deficiency. In this work, we present promising biomarkers to investigate molecular networks shared between T2DM and AD.

897. SIRT2 Inhibition Rescues Neurodegenerative Pathology but Increases Systemic Inflammation in a Transgenic Mouse Model of Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Sirtuin 2 (SIRT2) has been proposed to have a central role on aging, inflammation, cancer and neurodegenerative diseases; however, its specific function remains controversial. Recent studies propose SIRT2 pharmacological inhibition as a therapeutic strategy for several neurodegenerative diseases including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Surprisingly, none of these published studies regarding the potential interest of SIRT2 inhibition has assessed the peripheral adverse side consequences of this treatment. In this study, we demonstrate that the specific SIRT2 inhibitor, the compound 33i, does not exhibit genotoxic or mutagenic properties. Moreover, pharmacological treatment with 33i, improved cognitive dysfunction and long-term potentiation, reducing amyloid pathology and neuroinflammation in the APP/PS1 AD mouse model. However, this treatment increased peripheral levels of the inflammatory cytokines IL-1β, TNF, IL-6 and MCP-1. Accordingly, peripheral SIRT2 inhibition with the blood brain barrier impermeable compound AGK-2, worsened the cognitive capacities and increased systemic inflammation. The analysis of human samples revealed that SIRT2 is increased in the brain but not in the serum of AD patients. These results suggest that, although SIRT2 pharmacological inhibition may have beneficial consequences in neurodegenerative diseases, its pharmacological inhibition at the periphery would not be recommended and the systemic adverse side effects should be considered. This information is essential to maximize the therapeutic potential of SIRT2 inhibition not only for AD but also for other neurodegenerative diseases.

898. Sedentary Behavior and Incident Dementia Among Older Adults.
Abstract: Sedentary behavior is associated with cardiometabolic disease and mortality, but its association with dementia is unclear.

899. Biosynthesis and characterization of selenium nanoparticles from Andrographis alata: Assessment of their potential antimicrobial, antidiabetic, anti-Alzheimer's and wound healing properties.
Abstract: Recently, there has been a lot of focus on the environmentally friendly, specifically plant-based, synthesis of nanoparticles. The extract of leaves from Andrographis alata (A. alata) was used in the current work as a reducing agent to create selenium nanoparticles (SeNPs), which will be used in biological applications (antibacterial, antioxidant and antidiabetic, anti-Alzheimer's and wound healing properties). As part of detailed characterization, the UV-Vis spectra showed an absorption peak at 274 nm with a size in the range of 55-75 nm were shown in morphological investigations using EDS, DLS and SEM analysis to have crystalline spherical-shaped structures. Against several harmful bacterial strains, SeNPs demonstrated a remarkable antibacterial effectiveness. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of synthesized SeNPs completely prevented the development of various pathogens. Furthermore, bio-reduced SeNPs showed high cholinesterase inhibition efficacy and good antipotential Alzheimer's. According to the current research, treatment with biosynthesized SeNPs stimulates faster wound healing in NIH3T3 murine fibroblast cell lines without cytotoxicity. Different in vitro biological experiments also showed that, when compared with the extract of A. alata, bio-reduced SeNPs had considerable antibacterial, antioxidant effects, antidiabetic, anti-Alzheimer's and wound healing. In general, the findings demonstrate the efficacy and prospective therapeutic uses of SeNPs.

900. The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative in the era of Alzheimer's disease treatment: A review of ADNI studies from 2021 to 2022.
Abstract: The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) aims to improve Alzheimer's disease (AD) clinical trials. Since 2006, ADNI has shared clinical, neuroimaging, and cognitive data, and biofluid samples. We used conventional search methods to identify 1459 publications from 2021 to 2022 using ADNI data/samples and reviewed 291 impactful studies. This review details how ADNI studies improved disease progression understanding and clinical trial efficiency. Advances in subject selection, detection of treatment effects, harmonization, and modeling improved clinical trials and plasma biomarkers like phosphorylated tau showed promise for clinical use. Biomarkers of amyloid beta, tau, neurodegeneration, inflammation, and others were prognostic with individualized prediction algorithms available online. Studies supported the amyloid cascade, emphasized the importance of neuroinflammation, and detailed widespread heterogeneity in disease, linked to genetic and vascular risk, co-pathologies, sex, and resilience. Biological subtypes were consistently observed. Generalizability of ADNI results is limited by lack of cohort diversity, an issue ADNI-4 aims to address by enrolling a diverse cohort.

901. Anti-amyloid antibody treatments for Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Our aim is to review the most recent evidence on novel antibody therapies for Alzheimer's disease directed against amyloid-β. This is a joint statement of the European Association of Neurology and the European Psychiatric Association. After numerous unsuccessful endeavors to create a disease-modifying therapy for Alzheimer's disease, substantial and consistent evidence supporting the clinical effectiveness of monoclonal antibodies aimed at amyloid-β is finally emerging. The latest trials not only achieved their primary objective of slowing the progression of the disease over several months but also demonstrated positive secondary clinical outcomes and a decrease in amyloid-β levels as observed through positron emission tomography scans. Taken as a whole, these findings mark a significant breakthrough by substantiating that reducing amyloid-β yields tangible clinical benefits, beyond mere changes in biomarkers. Concurrently, the regular utilization of the new generation of drugs will determine whether statistical efficacy translates into clinically meaningful improvements. This may well signify the dawning of a new era in the development of drugs for Alzheimer's disease.

902. H3K18 lactylation of senescent microglia potentiates brain aging and Alzheimer's disease through the NFκB signaling pathway.
Abstract: Cellular senescence serves as a fundamental and underlying activity that drives the aging process, and it is intricately associated with numerous age-related diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), a neurodegenerative aging-related disorder characterized by progressive cognitive impairment. Although increasing evidence suggests that senescent microglia play a role in the pathogenesis of AD, their exact role remains unclear. In this study, we quantified the levels of lactic acid in senescent microglia, and hippocampus tissues of naturally aged mice and AD mice models (FAD4T and APP/PS1). We found lactic acid levels were significantly elevated in these cells and tissues compared to their corresponding counterparts, which increased the level of pan histone lysine lactylation (Kla). We aslo identified all histone Kla sites in senescent microglia, and found that both the H3K18 lactylation (H3K18la) and Pan-Kla were significantly up-regulated in senescent microglia and hippocampus tissues of naturally aged mice and AD modeling mice. We demonstrated that enhanced H3K18la directly stimulates the NFκB signaling pathway by increasing binding to the promoter of Rela (p65) and NFκB1(p50), thereby upregulating senescence-associated secretory phenotype (SASP) components IL-6 and IL-8. Our study provides novel insights into the physiological function of Kla and the epigenetic regulatory mechanism that regulates brain aging and AD. Specifically, we have identified the H3K18la/NFκB axis as a critical player in this process by modulating IL-6 and IL-8. Targeting this axis may be a potential therapeutic strategy for delaying aging and AD by blunting SASP.

903. Research progress on the role of extracellular vesicles in neurodegenerative diseases.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, and Huntington's disease, affect millions of people worldwide. Tremendous efforts have been put into disease-related research, but few breakthroughs have been made in diagnostic and therapeutic approaches. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are heterogeneous cell-derived membrane structures that arise from the endosomal system or are directly separated from the plasma membrane. EVs contain many biomolecules, including proteins, nucleic acids, and lipids, which can be transferred between different cells, tissues, or organs, thereby regulating cross-organ communication between cells during normal and pathological processes. Recently, EVs have been shown to participate in various aspects of neurodegenerative diseases. Abnormal secretion and levels of EVs are closely related to the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases and contribute to disease progression. Numerous studies have proposed EVs as therapeutic targets or biomarkers for neurodegenerative diseases. In this review, we summarize and discuss the advanced research progress on EVs in the pathological processes of several neurodegenerative diseases. Moreover, we outline the latest research on the roles of EVs in neurodegenerative diseases and their therapeutic potential for the diseases.

904. Tracking reactive astrogliosis in autosomal dominant and sporadic Alzheimer's disease with multi-modal PET and plasma GFAP.
Abstract: Plasma assays for the detection of Alzheimer's disease neuropathological changes are receiving ever increasing interest. The concentration of plasma glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) has been suggested as a potential marker of astrocytes or recently, amyloid-β burden, although this hypothesis remains unproven. We compared plasma GFAP levels with the astrocyte tracer 11C-Deuterium-L-Deprenyl (11C-DED) in a multi-modal PET design in participants with sporadic and Autosomal Dominant Alzheimer's disease.

905. Emerging therapeutic options in the management of diabetes: recent trends, challenges and future directions.
Abstract: Diabetes is a serious health issue that causes a progressive dysregulation of carbohydrate metabolism due to insufficient insulin hormone, leading to consistently high blood glucose levels. According to the epidemiological data, the prevalence of diabetes has been increasing globally, affecting millions of individuals. It is a long-term condition that increases the risk of various diseases caused by damage to small and large blood vessels. There are two main subtypes of diabetes: type 1 and type 2, with type 2 being the most prevalent. Genetic and molecular studies have identified several genetic variants and metabolic pathways that contribute to the development and progression of diabetes. Current treatments include gene therapy, stem cell therapy, statin therapy, and other drugs. Moreover, recent advancements in therapeutics have also focused on developing novel drugs targeting these pathways, including incretin mimetics, SGLT2 inhibitors, and GLP-1 receptor agonists, which have shown promising results in improving glycemic control and reducing the risk of complications. However, these treatments are often expensive, inaccessible to patients in underdeveloped countries, and can have severe side effects. Peptides, such as glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) and glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), are being explored as a potential therapy for diabetes. These peptides are postprandial glucose-dependent pancreatic beta-cell insulin secretagogues and have received much attention as a possible treatment option. Despite these advances, diabetes remains a major health challenge, and further research is needed to develop effective treatments and prevent its complications. This review covers various aspects of diabetes, including epidemiology, genetic and molecular basis, and recent advancements in therapeutics including herbal and synthetic peptides.

906. Diagnostic accuracy of brain age prediction in a memory clinic population and comparison with clinically available volumetric measures.
Abstract: The aim of this study was to assess the diagnostic validity of a deep learning-based method estimating brain age based on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and to compare it with volumetrics obtained using NeuroQuant (NQ) in a clinical cohort. Brain age prediction was performed on minimally processed MRI data using deep convolutional neural networks and an independent training set. The brain age gap (difference between chronological and biological age) was calculated, and volumetrics were performed in 110 patients with dementia (Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal dementia (FTD), and dementia with Lewy bodies), and 122 with non-dementia (subjective and mild cognitive impairment). Area-under-the-curve (AUC) based on receiver operating characteristics and logistic regression analyses were performed. The mean age was 67.1 (9.5) years and 48.7% (113) were females. The dementia versus non-dementia sensitivity and specificity of the volumetric measures exceeded 80% and yielded higher AUCs compared to BAG. The explained variance of the prediction of diagnostic stage increased when BAG was added to the volumetrics. Further, BAG separated patients with FTD from other dementia etiologies with > 80% sensitivity and specificity. NQ volumetrics outperformed BAG in terms of diagnostic discriminatory power but the two methods provided complementary information, and BAG discriminated FTD from other dementia etiologies.

907. Unravelling of molecular biomarkers in synaptic plasticity of Alzheimer's disease: Critical role of the restoration of neuronal circuits.
Abstract: Learning and memory storage are the fundamental activities of the brain. Aberrant expression of synaptic molecular markers has been linked to memory impairment in AD. Aging is one of the risk factors linked to gradual memory loss. It is estimated that approximately 13 million people worldwide will have AD by 2050. A massive amount of oxidative stress is kept under control by a complex network of antioxidants, which occasionally fails and results in neuronal oxidative stress. Increasing evidence suggests that ROS may affect many pathological aspects of AD, including Aβ accumulation, tau hyperphosphorylation, synaptic plasticity, and mitochondrial dysfunction, which may collectively result in neurodegeneration in the brain. Further investigation into the relationship between oxidative stress and AD may provide an avenue for effective preservation and pharmacological treatment of this neurodegenerative disease. In this review, we briefly summarize the cellular mechanism underlying Aβ induced synaptic dysfunction. Since oxidative stress is common in the elderly and may contribute to the pathogenesis of AD, we also shed light on the role of antioxidant and inflammatory pathways in oxidative stress adaptation, which has a potential therapeutic target in neurodegenerative diseases.

908. Drug repurposing on Alzheimer's disease through modulation of NRF2 neighborhood.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-dependent neurodegenerative disorder and the most common cause of cognitive decline. The alarming epidemiological features of Alzheimer's disease, combined with the high failure rate of candidate drugs tested in the preclinical phase, impose more intense investigations for new curative treatments. NRF2 (Nuclear factor-erythroid factor 2-related factor 2) plays a critical role in the inflammatory response and in the cellular redox homeostasis and provides cytoprotection in several diseases including those in the neurodegeneration spectrum. These roles suggest that NRF2 and its directly associated proteins may be novel attractive therapeutic targets in the fight against AD. In this study, through a systemics perspective, we propose an in silico drug repurposing approach for AD, based on the NRF2 interactome and regulome, with the aim of highlighting possible repurposed drugs for AD. Using publicly available information based on differential expressions of the NRF2-neighborhood in AD and through a computational drug repurposing pipeline, we derived to a short list of candidate repurposed drugs and small molecules that affect the expression levels of the majority of NRF2-partners. The relevance of these findings was assessed in a four-step computational meta-analysis including i) structural similarity comparisons with currently ongoing NRF2-related drugs in clinical trials ii) evaluation based on the NRF2-diseasome iii) comparison of relevance between targeted pathways of shortlisted drugs and NRF2-related drugs in clinical trials and iv) further comparison with existing knowledge on AD and NRF2-related drugs in clinical trials based on their known modes of action. Overall, our analysis yielded in 5 candidate repurposed drugs for AD. In cell culture, these 5 candidates activated a luciferase reporter for NRF2 activity and in hippocampus derived TH22 cells they increased NRF2 protein levels and the NRF2 transcriptional signatures as determined by increased expression of its downstream target heme oxygenase 1. We expect that our proposed candidate repurposed drugs will be useful for further research and clinical translation for AD.

909. The bexarotene derivative OAB-14 ameliorates cognitive decline in APP/PS1 transgenic mice by suppressing microglia-mediated neuroinflammation through the PPAR-γ pathway.
Abstract: Neuroinflammation is believed to be a critical process involved in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we investigated the pharmacological ability of OAB-14, a small molecule compound derived from bexarotene, to reduce neuroinflammation and improve cognitive decline in an AD mouse model (in vivo) and its ability to regulate signaling pathways implicated in neuroinflammation in vitro. It was found that OAB-14 significantly improved the cognitive function of 11-month-old AD mice (APP/PS1 transgenic mice) in a dose-dependent manner. Simultaneously, OAB-14 dramatically inhibited the activation of microglia in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of AD mice and dose-dependently downregulated the expression of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and NOD-like receptor protein 3 (NLRP3) in the cerebral cortex. At the cellular level, OAB-14 reversed the downregulation of M2 phenotypic markers, including mannose receptor C-type 1 (MRC1) and arginase 1 (ARG1), in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)- or amyloid-β protein oligomer (oAβ1-42)-activated BV2 microglial cells and partially restored their ability to clear Aβ. However, these effects were suppressed when peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-γ (PPAR-γ) was specifically inhibited by GW9662, a selective PPAR-γ antagonist. These results suggested that OAB-14 could regulate microglial polarization by regulating PPAR-γ signaling, thereby mitigating neuroinflammation and improving cognitive function in AD mice.

910. 1,8-cineole (eucalyptol): A versatile phytochemical with therapeutic applications across multiple diseases.
Abstract: 1,8-cineole (Eucalyptol), a naturally occurring compound derived from botanical sources such as eucalyptus, rosemary, and camphor laurel, has a long history of use in traditional medicine and exhibits an array of biological properties, including anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, antimicrobial, bronchodilatory, analgesic, and pro-apoptotic effects. Recent evidence has also indicated its potential role in managing conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, neuropathic pain, and cancer. This review spotlights the health advantages of 1,8-cineole, as demonstrated in clinical trials involving patients with respiratory disorders, including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma, bronchitis, and rhinosinusitis. In addition, we shed light on potential therapeutic applications of 1,8-cineole in various conditions, such as depression, epilepsy, peptic ulcer disease, diarrhea, cardiac-related heart diseases, and diabetes mellitus. A comprehensive understanding of 1,8-cineole's pharmacodynamics and safety aspects as well as developing effective formulations, might help to leverage its therapeutic value. This thorough review sets the stage for future research on diverse health benefits and potential uses of 1,8-cineole in tackling complex medical conditions.

911. Novel Quinazolinone Derivatives: Potential Synthetic Analogs for the Treatment of Glaucoma, Alzheimer's Disease and Diabetes Mellitus.
Abstract: Quinazolinones, which represent an important part of nitrogen-containing six-membered heterocyclic compounds, are frequently used in drug design due to their wide biological activity properties. Therefore, the novel quinazolinones were synthesized from the reaction of acylated derivatives of 4-hydroxy benzaldehyde with 3-amino-2-alkylquinazolin-4(3H)-ones with good yields (85-94 %) and their structures were characterized using Fourier-transform Infrared (FT-IR), Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (1 H-NMR, 13 C-NMR), and High-Resolution Mass Spectroscopy (HR-MS). As the application of the synthesized compounds, their inhibition properties of the synthesized compounds on α-Glucosidase (α-Glu), Acetylcholinesterase (AChE), Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE), and Carbonic anhydrase I-II (hCA I-II) metabolic enzymes were investigated. All compounds showed inhibition at nanomolar level with the Ki values in the range of 12.73±1.26-93.42±9.44 nM for AChE, 8.48±0.92-25.84±2.59 nM for BChE, 66.17±5.16-818.06±44.41 for α-Glu, 2.56±0.26-88.23±9.72 nM for hCA I, and 1.68±0.14-85.43±7.41 nM for hCA II. Molecular docking study was performed to understand the interactions of the most potent compounds with corresponding enzymes. Also, absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicity (ADME/T) properties of the compounds were investigated.

912. Interventions Within the Scope of Occupational Therapy to Improve Cognitive Performance for Individuals with Dementia and Mild Cognitive Impairment (2018-2022).
Abstract: Systematic review briefs provide a summary of the findings from systematic reviews evaluated in conjunction with the American Occupational Therapy Association's Evidence-Based Practice Program. Each systematic review brief summarizes the evidence on a theme related to a systematic review topic. This systematic review brief presents findings related to interventions to improve cognitive function for individuals living with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias and mild cognitive impairment.

913. Interventions for Care Partners of People With Alzheimer's Disease or Other Related Neurological Conditions to Address Depression (2018-2022).
Abstract: Systematic review briefs provide a summary of the findings from systematic reviews evaluated in conjunction with the American Occupational Therapy Association's Evidence-Based Practice Program. Each systematic review brief summarizes the evidence on a theme related to a systematic review topic. This systematic review brief presents finding related to interventions for care partners for persons with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias.

914. An Investigation of Affective Personality Traits in Alzheimer's Disease: SEEKING as a Possible Predictor for Early-Stage Alzheimer's Dementia.
Abstract: The aim of the current study was to investigate affective personality traits in Alzheimer's disease, a neurodegenerative condition mainly characterized by episodic memory impairment.

915. Racial Differences in Clinical Presentation in Individuals Diagnosed With Frontotemporal Dementia.
Abstract: Prior research suggests there are racial disparities in the presentation of dementia, but this has not been investigated in the context of frontotemporal dementia (FTD).

916. Plasma MMP-9/TIMP-1 ratio serves as a novel potential biomarker in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: This study aimed to explore the diagnostic potential of plasma MMP-9, TIMP-1 and MMP-9/TIMP-1 ratio for Alzheimer's disease (AD). This retrospective study was performed in a cohort consisting of patients with AD (AD group) and cognitive normal subjects (HC group). Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) classic biomarkers including Aβ42, Aβ40, total tau (t-tau), and phosphorylated tau (p-tau) levels, and plasma MMP-9 and TIMP-1 levels were measured by commercially available ELISA kits, respectively. The differential diagnostic potential of plasma MMP-9, TIMP-1 and MMP-9/TIMP-1 ratio was evaluated using the receiver operating characteristic curve analysis. It was observed that significantly elevated levels of plasma MMP-9 and MMP-9/TIMP-1 ratio in patients with AD than HC. Both MMP-9 and MMP-9/TIMP-1 ratios were negatively correlated with CSF Aβ42/Aβ40 ratio and positively correlated with CSF p-tau in AD group. ROC curve analysis showed better diagnostic accuracy of MMP-9/TIMP-1 ratio than MMP-9 for AD at a cutoff value of 1.35 with an area under the curve of 0.906 and sensitivity and specificity of 95.8% and 75%, respectively. Our findings encourage the use of plasma MMP-9/TIMP-1 ratio as a biomarker in the diagnosis of AD.

917. Video Intervention and Goals-of-Care Documentation in Hospitalized Older Adults: The VIDEO-PCE Randomized Clinical Trial.
Abstract: Despite the benefits of goals-of-care (GOC) communication, many hospitalized individuals never communicate their goals or preferences to clinicians.

918. The first quick olfactory test specific for Alzheimer's disease and French culture.
Abstract: Olfactory identification disorder is considered a promising early biomarker of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The QUICK TODA2 can be used as a short olfactory screening tool specific for French AD patients. The selection of AD specific odorants and the design of this screening were the main objectives of this twofold study.

919. [Alzheimer's disease, amyloid-b peptides and ubiquitin-proteasome system: Therapeutic perspectives].
Abstract: The Alzheimer's disease - an age-related neurodegenerative disorder leading to a progressive cognitive impairment - is characterized by an intracerebral accumulation of soluble β-amyloid (Aβ) oligomers, followed by the appearance of abnormally ubiquitinylated neurofibrillary tangles - a process associated with a chronic inflammation. The systematic presence of ubiquitinylated inclusions reflects a decrease in the proteasome activity due to (and contributing to) the presence of Aβ oligomers - a central dysfunction in the etiology of the disease. The involvement of the ubiquitin-proteasome system opens new therapeutic perspectives for both prevention and treatment.

920. A Randomized Double-blind Study to Assess the Skin Irritation and Sensitization Potential of a Once-weekly Donepezil Transdermal Delivery System in Healthy Volunteers.
Abstract: A once-weekly donepezil transdermal delivery system (TDS; Adlarity; Corium, LLC) is indicated for the treatment of mild, moderate, and severe dementia of the Alzheimer type.

921. Anesthesia-induced hippocampal-cortical hyperactivity and tau hyperphosphorylation impair remote memory retrieval in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Anesthesia often exacerbates memory recall difficulties in individuals with Alzheimer's disease (AD), but the underlying mechanisms remain unclear.

922. Delirium is associated with loss of feedback cortical connectivity.
Abstract: Post-operative delirium (POD) is associated with increased morbidity and mortality but is bereft of treatments, largely due to our limited understanding of the underlying pathophysiology. We hypothesized that delirium reflects a disturbance in cortical connectivity that leads to altered predictions of the sensory environment.

923. The potential clinical value of plasma biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Many people with cognitive complaints or impairment never receive an accurate diagnosis of the underlying condition, potentially impacting their access to appropriate treatment. To address this unmet need, plasma biomarker tests are being developed for use in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Plasma biomarker tests span various stages of development, including in vitro diagnostic devices (or tests) (IVDs), laboratory-developed tests (LDTs) and research use only devices (or tests) (RUOs). Understanding the differences between each test type is important for appropriate implementation into the AD diagnostic pathway and care continuum.

924. Innovative Discoveries in Neurosurgical Treatment of Neurodegenerative Diseases: A Narrative Review.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) encapsulate conditions in which neural cell populations are perpetually degraded and nervous system function destroyed. Generally linked to increased age, the proportion of patients diagnosed with a NDD is growing as human life expectancies rise. Traditional NDD therapies and surgical interventions have been limited. However, recent breakthroughs in understanding disease pathophysiology, improved drug delivery systems, and targeted pharmacologic agents have allowed innovative treatment approaches to treat NDDs. A common denominator for administering these new treatment options is the requirement for neurosurgical skills. In the present narrative review, we highlight exciting and novel preclinical and clinical discoveries being integrated into NDD care. We also discuss the traditional role of neurosurgery in managing these neurodegenerative conditions and emphasize the critical role of neurosurgery in effectuating these newly developed treatments.

925. Carbamate as a potential anti-Alzheimer's pharmacophore: A review.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive age-related neurodegenerative brain disorder, which leads to loss of memory and other cognitive dysfunction. The underlying mechanisms of AD pathogenesis are very complex and still not fully explored. Cholinergic neuronal loss, accumulation of amyloid plaque, metal ions dyshomeostasis, tau hyperphosphorylation, oxidative stress, neuroinflammation, and mitochondrial dysfunction are major hallmarks of AD. The current treatment options for AD are acetylcholinesterase inhibitors (donepezil, rivastigmine, and galantamine) and NMDA receptor antagonists (memantine). These FDA-approved drugs mainly provide symptomatic relief without addressing the pathological aspects of disease progression. So, there is an urgent need for novel drug development that not only addresses the basic mechanisms of the disease but also shows the neuroprotective property. Various research groups across the globe are working on the development of multifunctional agents for AD amelioration using different core scaffolds for their design, and carbamate is among them. Rivastigmine was the first carbamate drug investigated for AD management. The carbamate fragment, a core scaffold of rivastigmine, act as a potential inhibitor of acetylcholinesterase. In this review, we summarize the last 10 years of research conducted on the modification of carbamate with different substituents which primarily target ChE inhibition, reduce oxidative stress, and modulate Aβ aggregation.

926. Identification of Copper Metabolism Related Biomarkers, Polygenic Prediction Model, and Potential Therapeutic Agents in Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: The underlying pathogenic genes and effective therapeutic agents of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are still elusive. Meanwhile, abnormal copper metabolism is observed in AD brains of both human and mouse models.

927. A Diagnostic Test Accuracy Study Investigating General Practitioner Clinical Impression and Brief Cognitive Assessments for Dementia in Primary Care, Compared to Specialized Assessment.
Abstract: Many health systems are interested in increasing the number of uncomplicated and typical dementia diagnoses that are made in primary care, but the comparative accuracy of tests is unknown.

928. Poisonings in Older People with Dementia: A Systematic Scoping Review and Meta-Analysis.
Abstract: Older people with dementia are at a particularly high risk of poisonings and their subsequent harms.

929. Dietary Sugar Intake Associated with a Higher Risk of Dementia in Community-Dwelling Older Adults.
Abstract: We have limited evidence for the relationship of high sugar intake with dementia risk.

930. Biomarkers and Risk Assessment of Alzheimer's Disease in Low- and Middle-Income Countries.
Abstract: Dementia is a chronic syndrome which is common among the elderly and is associated with significant morbidity and mortality for patients and their caregivers. Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common form of clinical dementia, is biologically characterized by the deposition of amyloid-β plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in the brain. The onset of AD begins decades before manifestation of symptoms and clinical diagnosis, underlining the need to shift from clinical diagnosis of AD to a more objective diagnosis using biomarkers. Having performed a literature search of original articles and reviews on PubMed and Google Scholar, we present this review detailing the existing biomarkers and risk assessment tools for AD. The prevalence of dementia in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) is predicted to increase over the next couple of years. Thus, we aimed to identify potential biomarkers that may be appropriate for use in LMICs, considering the following factors: sensitivity, specificity, invasiveness, and affordability of the biomarkers. We also explored risk assessment tools and the potential use of artificial intelligence/machine learning solutions for diagnosing, assessing risks, and monitoring the progression of AD in low-resource settings. Routine use of AD biomarkers has yet to gain sufficient ground in clinical settings. Therefore, clinical diagnosis of AD will remain the mainstay in LMICs for the foreseeable future. Efforts should be made towards the development of low-cost, easily administered risk assessment tools to identify individuals who are at risk of AD in the population. We recommend that stakeholders invest in education, research and development targeted towards effective risk assessment and management.

931. Predictive factors for Alzheimer's disease progression: a comprehensive retrospective analysis of 3,553 cases with 211 months follow-up.
Abstract: There is conflicting data regarding the predictors of Alzheimer's Disease (AD), the most common form of dementia. The main objective of the study is to evaluate potential predictors of AD progression using a comprehensive follow-up dataset that includes functional/cognitive assessments, clinical and neuropsychiatric evaluations, and neuroimaging biomarkers such as hippocampal atrophy or white matter intensities (WMIs).

932. Comparison of cerebrospinal fluid space between probable normal pressure hydrocephalus and Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (INPH) is a potentially reversible syndrome characterized by complex symptoms, difficulty in diagnosis and a lack of detailed clinical description, and it is difficult to distinguish from Alzheimer's disease (AD). The objective of this study was to design a method for measuring the actual amount of hydrocephalus in patients with INPH and to evaluate INPH.

933. The role of Bacillus Calmette-Guérin administration on the risk of dementia in bladder cancer patients: a systematic review and meta-analysis.
Abstract: Previous cohort studies have found an association between Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) administration and incident dementia. In the systematic review and meta-analysis, we aimed to summarize the current evidence of the effect of BCG use on the risk of developing dementia.

934. DNA hypomethylation promotes the expression of CASPASE-4 which exacerbates neuroinflammation and amyloid-β deposition in Alzheimer's disease The Ohio State University College of Medicine.
Abstract: Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the 6th leading cause of death in the US. It is established that neuroinflammation contributes to the synaptic loss, neuronal death, and symptomatic decline of AD patients. Accumulating evidence suggests a critical role for microglia, innate immune phagocytes of the brain. For instance, microglia release pro-inflammatory products such as IL-1β which is highly implicated in AD pathobiology. The mechanisms underlying the transition of microglia to proinflammatory promoters of AD remain largely unknown. To address this gap, we performed Reduced Representation Bisulfite Sequencing (RRBS) to profile global DNA methylation changes in human AD brains compared to no disease controls. We identified differential DNA methylation of CASPASE-4 (CASP4), which when expressed, can be involved in generation of IL-1β and is predominantly expressed in immune cells. DNA upstream of the CASP4 transcription start site was hypomethylated in human AD brains, which was correlated with increased expression of CASP4. Furthermore, microglia from a mouse model of AD (5xFAD) express increased levels of CASP4 compared to wild-type (WT) mice. To study the role of CASP4 in AD, we developed a novel mouse model of AD lacking the mouse ortholog of CASP4, CASP11, which is encoded by mouse Caspase-4 (5xFAD/ Casp4 -/- ). The expression of CASP11 was associated with increased accumulation of pathologic protein aggregate amyloid-β (Aβ) and increased microglial production of IL-1β in 5xFAD mice. Utilizing RNA sequencing, we determined that CASP11 promotes unique transcriptomic phenotypes in 5xFAD mouse brains, including alterations of neuroinflammatory and chemokine signaling pathways. Notably, in vitro , CASP11 promoted generation of IL-1β from macrophages in response to cytosolic Aβ through cleavage of downstream effector Gasdermin D (G SDMD). We describe a role for CASP11 and GSDMD in the generation of IL-1β in response to Aβ and the progression of pathologic inflammation in AD. Overall, our results demonstrate that overexpression of CASP4 due to differential methylation in AD microglia contributes to the progression of AD pathobiology, thus identifying CASP4 as a potential target for immunotherapies for the treatment of AD.

935. The Association of Alzheimer's Disease-related Blood-based Biomarkers with Cognitive Screening Test Performance in the Congolese Population in Kinshasa.
Abstract: Alzheimer's Disease (AD), the primary cause of dementia, poses a significant global burden. Diagnosis typically involves invasive and costly methods like neuroimaging or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarker testing of phosphorylated tau (p-tau) and amyloid-β 42/40 (Aβ 42/40 ). Such procedures are especially impractical in resource-constrained regions, such as the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Blood-based biomarker testing may provide a more accessible screening opportunity.

936. Tau fibrils induce nanoscale membrane damage and nucleate cytosolic tau at lysosomes.
Abstract: The prion-like spread of protein aggregates is a leading hypothesis for the propagation of neurofibrillary lesions in the brain, including the spread of tau inclusions associated with Alzheimer's disease. The mechanisms of cellular uptake of tau seeds and subsequent nucleated polymerization of cytosolic tau are major questions in the field, and the potential for coupling between the entry and nucleation mechanisms has been little explored. We found that in primary astrocytes, endocytosis of tau seeds leads to their accumulation in lysosomes. This in turn leads to lysosomal swelling, deacidification and recruitment of ESCRT proteins, but not Galectin-3, to the lysosomal membrane. These observations are consistent with nanoscale damage of the lysosomal membrane. Using live cell and STORM, imaging, nucleation of cytosolic tau occurs primarily at the lysosome membrane under these conditions. These data suggest that tau seeds escape from lysosomes via nanoscale damage rather than wholesale rupture, and that nucleation of cytosolic tau commences as soon as tau fibril ends emerge from the lysosomal membrane.

937. Relationship between sex biases in gene expression and sex biases in autism and Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Sex differences in the brain may play an important role in sex-differential prevalence of neuropsychiatric conditions. In order to understand the transcriptional basis of sex differences, we analyzed multiple, large-scale, human postmortem brain RNA-seq datasets using both within-region and pan-regional frameworks. We find evidence of sex-biased transcription in many autosomal genes, some of which provide evidence for pathways and cell population differences between chromosomally male and female individuals. These analyses also highlight regional differences in the extent of sex-differential gene expression. We observe an increase in specific neuronal transcripts in male brains and an increase in immune and glial function-related transcripts in female brains. Integration with single-cell data suggests this corresponds to sex differences in cellular states rather than cell abundance. Integration with case-control gene expression studies suggests a female molecular predisposition towards Alzheimer's disease, a female-biased disease. Autism, a male-biased diagnosis, does not exhibit a male predisposition pattern in our analysis. Finally, we provide region specific analyses of sex differences in brain gene expression to enable additional studies at the interface of gene expression and diagnostic differences.

938. Impact of interhospital transfer on patients with Alzheimer's disease and other related dementias.
Abstract: Older adults are often transferred from one emergency department (ED) to another hospital for speciality care, but little is known about whether those transfers positively impact patients, particularly those with Alzheimer's disease and other related dementias (ADRD). In this study we aimed to describe the impact of interhospital transfer on older adults with and without ADRD. In a retrospective review of electronic medical records, we collected data on demographics, insurance type, initial code status, intensive care, length of stay, specialist consult, procedure within 48 hours, and discharge disposition for older adults (≥65years). We included older adults with at least one ED visit, who were transferred to a tertiary care hospital. With logistic regression, we estimated odds of death, intensive care stay, or procedure within 48 hours by ADRD diagnosis. Patients with ADRD more often received a geriatrics (p < 0.001) or palliative care consult (p = 0.038). They were less likely to be full code at admission (p < 0.001) or to be discharged home (p < 0.001). Patients living with ADRD less often received intensive care or a procedure within 48 hours of transfer (odds ratio [OR] 1.87, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.22-2.88). Patients with ADRD were less likely to receive intensive care unit admission or specialist procedures after transfer. Further study is indicated to comprehensively understand patient-centered outcomes.

939. Face Name Associative Memory Exam and biomarker status in the ARMADA study: Advancing reliable measurement in Alzheimer's disease and cognitive aging.
Abstract: The Face Name Associative Memory Exam (FNAME) was introduced into the NIH Toolbox as part of the ARMADA study and establishes normative data for diverse participants, ages 64 to 85+, and proposes cutoff scores between biomarker positive versus negative (+/-) groups. The FNAME was administered to 257 participants across the clinical spectrum with 122 having amyloid biomarkers. Linear regression explored the association between demographics and FNAME and between amyloid (+/-) groups. Receiver operating characteristic curves (ROC) identified performance thresholds that best discriminated between biomarker (+/-) individuals. Lower FNAME scores occurred in males, older ages, Black/African Americans, Hispanics, and biomarker-positive participants. ROC analyses demonstrated acceptable accuracy (0.73 to 0.77) but only when combined with clinical status. The diagnostic discrimination of amyloid positivity was acceptable but not excellent, suggesting the FNAME may be a better screening indicator of clinical status rather than amyloid deposition in cognitively normal individuals. Normative data are provided.

940. Rethinking the detection and diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: Outcomes of a European Brain Council project.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common form of dementia, is a progressive and debilitating neurodegenerative condition which robs people of their memory, their independence, their relationships and, ultimately, their lives. It affects close to 7 million people in the European Union (EU) alone. The detection and diagnosis of AD relies on a system that remains focused on the late stage of the disease, despite a better understanding of the disease progression. Clinical practice and healthcare systems' readiness to detect, diagnose and treat the disease effectively are still lagging. The use of biomarkers (cerebrospinal fluid tests (CSF) and positron emission tomography scans (PET)), which are central to a diagnostic assessment for people with AD symptoms, as well as relevant diagnostic facilities are under-utilised. PET imaging is expensive and of limited availability, and CSF sampling may be considered invasive. The European Brain Council's 'Rethinking Alzheimer's disease: Detection and diagnosis' White Paper has looked at the barriers to early diagnosis and how the healthcare systems infrastructure for detection and diagnosis of AD need to be transformed in order for people with AD to benefit from innovative solutions once they become approved for use.

941. Background and roles: myosin in autoimmune diseases.
Abstract: The myosin superfamily is a group of molecular motors. Autoimmune diseases are characterized by dysregulation or deficiency of the immune tolerance mechanism, resulting in an immune response to the human body itself. The link between myosin and autoimmune diseases is much more complex than scientists had hoped. Myosin itself immunization can induce experimental autoimmune diseases of animals, and myosins were abnormally expressed in a number of autoimmune diseases. Additionally, myosin takes part in the pathological process of multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, autoimmune myocarditis, myositis, hemopathy, inclusion body diseases, etc. However, research on myosin and its involvement in the occurrence and development of diseases is still in its infancy, and the underlying pathological mechanisms are not well understood. We can reasonably predict that myosin might play a role in new treatments of autoimmune diseases.

942. Current clinical application of dantrolene sodium.
Abstract: Dantrolene sodium (DS) was first introduced as an oral antispasmodic drug. However, in 1975, DS was demonstrated to be effective for managing malignant hyperthermia (MH) and was adopted as the primary therapeutic drug after intravenous administration. However, it is difficult to administer DS intravenously to manage MH. MH is life-threatening, pharmacogenomically related, and induced by depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents or inhalational anesthetics. All anesthesiologists should know the pharmacology of DS. DS suppresses Ca2+ release from ryanodine receptors (RyRs). RyRs are expressed in various tissues, although their distribution differs among subtypes. The anatomical and physiological functions of RyRs have also been demonstrated as effective therapeutic drugs for cardiac arrhythmias, Alzheimer's disease, and other RyR-related diseases. Recently, a new formulation was introduced that enhanced the hydrophilicity of the lipophilic DS. The authors summarize the pharmacological properties of DS and comment on its indications, contraindications, adverse effects, and interactions with other drugs by reviewing reference articles.

943. Gene expression analysis reveals GRIN1, SYT1, and SYN2 as significant therapeutic targets and drug repurposing reveals lorazepam and lorediplon as potent inhibitors to manage Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a slowly progressive neurodegenerative disease and a leading cause of dementia. We aim to identify key genes for the development of therapeutic targets and biomarkers for potential treatments for AD. Meta-analysis was performed on six microarray datasets and identified the differentially expressed genes between healthy and Alzheimer's disease samples. Thereafter, we filtered out the common genes which were present in at least four microarray datasets for downstream analysis. We have constructed a gene-gene network for the common genes and identified six hub genes. Furthermore, we investigated the regulatory mechanisms of these hub genes by analysing their interaction with miRNAs and transcription factors. The gene ontology analysis results highlighted the enriched terms significantly associated with hub genes. Through an extensive literature survey, we found that three of the hub genes including GRIN1, SYN2, and SYT1 were critically involved in disease development. To leverage existing drugs for potential repurposing, we predicted drug-gene interaction using the drug-gene interaction database, and performed molecular docking studies. The docking results revealed that the drug compounds had strong interactions and favorable binding with selected hub genes. Lorazepam exhibits a binding energy of -7.3 kcal/mol with GRIN1, Lorediplon exhibits binding energies of -7.7 kcal/mol and -6.3 kcal/mol with the SYT1, and SYN2 respectively. In addition, 100 ns molecular dynamics simulations were carried out for the top complexes and apo protein as well. Furthermore, the MM-PBSA free energy calculations also revealed that these complexes are stable and had favorable energies. According to our study, the identified hub gene could serve as a biomarker as well as a therapeutic target for AD, and the proposed repurposed drug molecules appear to have promising efficacy in treating the disease.Communicated by Ramaswamy H. Sarma.

944. Pharmacological Potential of Bioactive Peptides for the Treatment of Diseases Associated with Alzheimer's and Brain Disorders.
Abstract: Bioactive peptides are a promising class of therapeutics for the treatment of diseases associated with Alzheimer's and brain disorders. These peptides are derived from naturally occurring proteins and have been shown to possess a variety of beneficial properties. They may modulate neurotransmitter systems, reduce inflammation, and improve cognitive performance. In addition, bioactive peptides have the potential to target specific molecular pathways involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's and brain disorders. For example, peptides have been shown to interact with amyloid-beta, a major component of amyloid plaques found in Alzheimer's disease, and have been shown to reduce its accumulation in the brain. Furthermore, peptides have been found to modulate the activity of glutamate receptors, which are important for memory and learning, as well as to inhibit the activity of enzymes involved in the formation of toxic amyloid-beta aggregates. Finally, bioactive peptides have the potential to reduce oxidative stress and inflammation, two major components of many neurological disorders. These peptides could be used alone or in combination with traditional pharmacological treatments to improve the management of diseases associated with Alzheimer's and brain disorders.

945. Neurodegenerative disease: New hopes and perspectives.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Huntington's disease, and Friedrich ataxia are all incurable neurodegenerative diseases defined by the continuous progressive loss of distinct neuronal subtypes. Despite their rising prevalence among the world's ageing population, fewer advances have been made in the concurrent massive efforts to develop newer drugs. Recently, there has been a shift in research focus towards the discovery of new therapeutic agents for neurodegenerative diseases. In this review, we have summarized the recently developed therapies and their status in the management of neurodegenerative diseases.

946. Novel systemic delivery of a peptide-conjugated antisense oligonucleotide to reduce α-synuclein in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative disorders of aging are characterized by the progressive accumulation of proteins such as α-synuclein (α-syn) and amyloid beta (Aβ). Misfolded and aggregated α-syn has been implicated in neurological disorders such as Parkinson's disease, and Dementia with Lewy Bodies, but less so in Alzheimer's Disease (AD), despite the fact that accumulation of α-syn has been confirmed in over 50% of postmortem brains neuropathologically diagnosed with AD. To date, no therapeutic strategy has effectively or consistently downregulated α-syn in AD. Here we tested the hypothesis that by using a systemically-delivered peptide (ApoB11) bound to a modified antisense oligonucleotide against α-syn (ASO-α-syn), we can downregulate α-syn expression in an AD mouse model and improve behavioral and neuropathologic phenotypes. Our results demonstrate that monthly systemic treatment with of ApoB11:ASO α-syn beginning at 6 months of age reduces expression of α-synuclein in the brains of 9-month-old AD mice. Downregulation of α-syn led to reduction in Aβ plaque burden, prevented neuronal loss and astrogliosis. Furthermore, we found that AD mice treated with ApoB11:ASO α-syn had greatly improved hippocampal and spatial memory function in comparison to their control counterparts. Collectively, our data supports the reduction of α-syn through use of systemically-delivered ApoB11:ASO α-syn as a promising future disease-modifying therapeutic for AD.

947. An updated overview on the relationship between human gut microbiome dysbiosis and psychiatric and psychological disorders.
Abstract: There is a lot of evidence establishing that nervous system development is related to the composition and functions of the gut microbiome. In addition, the central nervous system (CNS) controls the imbalance of the intestinal microbiota, constituting a bidirectional communication system. At present, various gut-brain crosstalk routes have been described, including immune, endocrine and neural circuits via the vagal pathway. Several empirical data have associated gut microbiota alterations (dysbiosis) with neuropsychiatric diseases, such as Alzheimer's disease, autism and Parkinson's disease, and with other psychological disorders, like anxiety and depression. Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) therapy has shown that the gut microbiota can transfer behavioral features to recipient animals, which provides strong evidence to establish a causal-effect relationship. Interventions, based on prebiotics, probiotics or synbiotics, have demonstrated an important influence of microbiota on neurological disorders by the synthesis of neuroactive compounds that interact with the nervous system and by the regulation of inflammatory and endocrine processes. Further research is needed to demonstrate the influence of gut microbiota dysbiosis on psychiatric and psychological disorders, and how microbiota-based interventions may be used as potential therapeutic tools.

948. Exploration of the novel phthalimide-hydroxypyridinone derivatives as multifunctional drug candidates against Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: A novel series of phthalimide-hydroxypyridinone derivatives were rationally designed and evaluated as potential anti-Alzheimer's disease (AD) agents. Bioactivity tests showed that all compounds displayed great iron ions-chelating activity (pFe3+ = 17.07-19.52), in addition to potent inhibition of human monoamine oxidase B (hMAO-B). Compound 11n emerged as the most effective anti-AD lead compound with a pFe3+ value of 18.51, along with selective hMAO-B inhibitory activity (IC50 = 0.79 ± 0.05 μM, SI > 25.3). The results of cytotoxicity assays demonstrated that 11n showed extremely weak toxicity in PC12 cell line at 50 μM. Additionally, compound 11n displayed a cytoprotective effect against H2O2-induced oxidative damage. Moreover, compound 11n exhibited ideal blood-brain barrier (BBB) permeability in the parallel artificial membrane permeation assay (PAMPA), and significantly improved scopolamine-induced cognitive and memory impairment in mice behavioral experiments. In conclusion, these favorable experimental results suggested compound 11n deserved further investigation as an anti-AD lead compound.

949. Nuclear orphan receptors: A novel therapeutic agent in neuroinflammation.
Abstract: Orphan receptors constitute a historically varied subsection of a superfamily of nuclear receptors. Nuclear receptors regulate gene expression in response to ligand signals and are particularly alluring therapeutic targets for chronic illnesses. Neuroinflammation and neurodegenerative diseases have been linked to these orphan nuclear receptors. Preclinical and clinical evidence suggests that orphan receptors could serve as future targets in neuroinflammation, such as Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's Disease (AD), Huntington's Disease (HD), Multiple Sclerosis (MS), and Cerebral Ischemia. Given the therapeutic relevance of certain orphan receptors in a variety of disorders, their potential in neuroinflammation remains unproven. There is substantial evidence that ligand-activated transcription factors have great promise for preventing neurodegenerative and neurological disorders, with certain orphan nuclear receptors i.e., PPARγ, NR4As, and orphan GPCRs holding particularly high potential. Based on previous findings, we attempted to determine the contribution of PPAR, NR4As, and orphan GPCRs-regulated neuroinflammation to the pathogenesis of these disorders and their potential to become novel therapeutic targets.

950. Amyloid and tau-PET in early-onset AD: Baseline data from the Longitudinal Early-onset Alzheimer's Disease Study (LEADS).
Abstract: We aimed to describe baseline amyloid-beta (Aβ) and tau-positron emission tomograrphy (PET) from Longitudinal Early-onset Alzheimer's Disease Study (LEADS), a prospective multi-site observational study of sporadic early-onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD).

951. Astrocyte biomarkers GFAP and YKL-40 mediate early Alzheimer's disease progression.
Abstract: We studied how biomarkers of reactive astrogliosis mediate the pathogenic cascade in the earliest Alzheimer's disease (AD) stages.

952. Isolation and in-silico approach of Modified Embelin derivative from Embelia ribes fruits as anti-Alzheimer agent.
Abstract: Embelin is one of the primary compounds present in the Embelia ribes fruit. Embelin has a broader pharmacological activity such as Anti-inflammatory, anti-bacterial, antioxidant, and many more. The ultimate aim of the study is to ensure the impact of reduced embelin in the management of Alzheimer's disease. Embelin was isolated and modified by the reduction method, and the Modified Embelin derivative (MED) 3-Undecylcyclohexa-2,5-diene-1,2,4,5-tetraol was analysed through FT-IR, NMR, and Mass Spectroscopic techniques. MED was docked against acetylcholinesterase (AChE) amyloid beta (Aβ) receptors PDB ID: 1EVE & 1B68, respectively. The docking scores remain similar to that of positive standards galantamine and Donepezil.

953. Omics approaches to investigate the neuroprotective capacity of a Citrus sinensis (sweet orange) extract in a Caenorhabditis elegans Alzheimer's model.
Abstract: Citrus sinensis by-products are a promising source of neuroprotective molecules. In this study, a pressurized liquid extract of Citrus by-products (PLE100) has been extensively characterized, and its neuroprotective capacity tested in the Caenorhabditis elegans strain CL4176, a validated in vivo model of Alzheimer's disease (AD). More than 450 compounds have been annotated in the extract, being triacylglycerols (TGs), stigmastanes, fatty acids (FAs) and carbohydrates the most abundant. The results demonstrate that worms PLE100-treated are significantly protected in a dose-dependent manner against the Aβ-peptide paralysis toxicity. The RNA-Seq data showed an alteration of 294 genes mainly related to the stress response defense along with genes involved in the lipid transport and metabolism. Moreover, the comprehensive metabolomics study allowed the identification of 818 intracellular metabolites, of which 54 were significantly altered (mainly lipids). The integration of these and previous results provides with new evidences of the protection mechanisms of this promising extract.

954. TIHM: An open dataset for remote healthcare monitoring in dementia.
Abstract: Dementia is a progressive condition that affects cognitive and functional abilities. There is a need for reliable and continuous health monitoring of People Living with Dementia (PLWD) to improve their quality of life and support their independent living. Healthcare services often focus on addressing and treating already established health conditions that affect PLWD. Managing these conditions continuously can inform better decision-making earlier for higher-quality care management for PLWD. The Technology Integrated Health Management (TIHM) project developed a new digital platform to routinely collect longitudinal, observational, and measurement data, within the home and apply machine learning and analytical models for the detection and prediction of adverse health events affecting the well-being of PLWD. This work describes the TIHM dataset collected during the second phase (i.e., feasibility study) of the TIHM project. The data was collected from homes of 56 PLWD and associated with events and clinical observations (daily activity, physiological monitoring, and labels for health-related conditions). The study recorded an average of 50 days of data per participant, totalling 2803 days.

955. Habitual glucosamine use, APOE genotypes, and risk of incident cause-specific dementia in the older population.
Abstract: The relationship of glucosamine use with incident dementia in the older population remains uncertain. We aimed to evaluate the longitudinal association between habitual glucosamine supplement and the risk of cause-specific dementia and examine the possible effect modifiers on this association.

956. Mitochondrial dysfunction in neurodegenerative disorders: Potential therapeutic application of mitochondrial transfer to central nervous system-residing cells.
Abstract: Mitochondrial dysfunction is reiteratively involved in the pathogenesis of diverse neurodegenerative diseases. Current in vitro and in vivo approaches support that mitochondrial dysfunction is branded by several molecular and cellular defects, whose impact at different levels including the calcium and iron homeostasis, energetic balance and/or oxidative stress, makes it difficult to resolve them collectively given their multifactorial nature. Mitochondrial transfer offers an overall solution since it contains the replacement of damage mitochondria by healthy units. Therefore, this review provides an introducing view on the structure and energy-related functions of mitochondria as well as their dynamics. In turn, we summarize current knowledge on how these features are deregulated in different neurodegenerative diseases, including frontotemporal dementia, multiple sclerosis, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Friedreich ataxia, Alzheimer´s disease, Parkinson´s disease, and Huntington's disease. Finally, we analyzed current advances in mitochondrial transfer between diverse cell types that actively participate in neurodegenerative processes, and how they might be projected toward developing novel therapeutic strategies.

957. Aβ dissociation by pectolinarin may counteract against Aβ-induced synaptic dysfunction and memory impairment.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a degenerative brain disorder characterised by various neurological symptoms, including memory impairment and mood disorders, associated with the abnormal accumulation of amyloid b(Aβ) and tau proteins in the brain. There is still no definitive treatment available for AD, and the Aβ antibody drugs, which are expected to be approved by the FDA, have many limitations. Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop low-molecular-weight therapeutic agents for the management of AD. In this study, we investigated whether pectolinarin, a flavonoid, regulates Aβ aggregation and Aβ-induced toxicity. Pectolinarin demonstrated concentration-dependent inhibition of Aβ aggregation and had the ability to break down pre-formed Aβ aggregates, thereby reducing their neurotoxicity. Furthermore, pectolinarin suppressed Aβ aggregates-induced reduction in long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus. Oral administration of pectolinarin in experimental animals inhibited memory impairment and LTP deficits induced by Aβ injection in the hippocampus. These results indicate that pectolinarin may reduce toxic Aβ species and Aβ-induced memory impairments and synaptic dysfunction.

958. Association Between Common Urologic Medications and Onset of Alzheimer's Disease and Related Dementias in Men With Prostate Cancer Managed by Different Primary Treatment Modalities.
Abstract: To understand the relationship between common urologic medications phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors (PDE5i) and anticholinergics (AC) and risk of dementia onset in men who underwent different primary treatments for prostate cancer.

959. Unbiased classification of the elderly human brain proteome resolves distinct clinical and pathophysiological subtypes of cognitive impairment.
Abstract: Cognitive impairment in the elderly features complex molecular pathophysiology extending beyond the hallmark pathologies of traditional disease classification. Molecular subtyping using large-scale -omic strategies can help resolve this biological heterogeneity. Using quantitative mass spectrometry, we measured ∼8000 proteins across >600 dorsolateral prefrontal cortex tissues with clinical diagnoses of no cognitive impairment (NCI), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia. Unbiased classification of MCI and AD cases based on individual proteomic profiles resolved three classes with expression differences across numerous cell types and biological ontologies. Two classes displayed molecular signatures atypical of AD neurodegeneration, such as elevated synaptic and decreased inflammatory markers. In one class, these atypical proteomic features were associated with clinical and pathological hallmarks of cognitive resilience. We were able to replicate these classes and their clinicopathological phenotypes across two additional tissue cohorts. These results promise to better define the molecular heterogeneity of cognitive impairment and meaningfully impact its diagnostic and therapeutic precision.

960. How do modifiable risk factors affect Alzheimer's disease pathology or mitigate its effect on clinical symptom expression?
Abstract: Epidemiological studies show that modifiable risk factors account for about 40% of the population variability in risk of developing dementia, including sporadic Alzheimer's disease (sAD). Recent findings suggest that these factors might also modify disease trajectories of people with autosomal dominant Alzheimer's disease (ADAD). With positron emission tomography (PET) imaging it is now possible to study the disease many years before its clinical onset. Such studies can provide key knowledge regarding pathways for either the prevention of pathology or the postponement of its clinical expression. The former "resistance pathway" suggests that modifiable risk factors could affect amyloid and tau burden decades before the appearance of cognitive impairment. Alternatively, the "resilience pathway" suggests that modifiable risk factors might mitigate the symptomatic expression of AD pathology on cognition. These pathways are not mutually exclusive and might appear at different disease stages. Here, in a narrative review, we present neuroimaging evidence that supports both pathways in sAD and ADAD. We then propose mechanisms for their protective effect. Among possible mechanisms, we examine neural and vascular mechanisms for the resistance pathway. We also describe brain maintenance and functional compensation as bases for the resilience pathway. Improved mechanistic understanding of both pathways may suggest new interventions.

961. Irisin reduces amyloid-β by inducing the release of neprilysin from astrocytes following downregulation of ERK-STAT3 signaling.
Abstract: A pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the deposition of amyloid-β (Aβ) protein in the brain. Physical exercise has been shown to reduce Aβ burden in various AD mouse models, but the underlying mechanisms have not been elucidated. Irisin, an exercise-induced hormone, is the secreted form of fibronectin type-III-domain-containing 5 (FNDC5). Here, using a three-dimensional (3D) cell culture model of AD, we show that irisin significantly reduces Aβ pathology by increasing astrocytic release of the Aβ-degrading enzyme neprilysin (NEP). This is mediated by downregulation of ERK-STAT3 signaling. Finally, we show that integrin αV/β5 acts as the irisin receptor on astrocytes required for irisin-induced release of astrocytic NEP, leading to clearance of Aβ. Our findings reveal for the first time a cellular and molecular mechanism by which exercise-induced irisin attenuates Aβ pathology, suggesting a new target pathway for therapies aimed at the prevention and treatment of AD.

962. Grey matter volume and CSF biomarkers predict neuropsychological subtypes of MCI.
Abstract: There is increasing evidence of different subtypes of individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). An important line of research is whether neuropsychologically-defined subtypes have distinct patterns of neurodegeneration and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarker composition. In our study, we demonstrated that MCI participants of the ADNI database (N = 640) can be discriminated into 3 coherent neuropsychological subgroups. Our clustering approach revealed amnestic MCI, mixed MCI, and cluster-derived normal subgroups. Furthermore, classification modeling revealed that specific predictive features can be used to differentiate amnestic and mixed MCI from cognitively normal (CN) controls: CSF Aβ142 concentration for the former and CSF Aβ1-42 concentration, tau concentration as well as grey matter atrophy (especially in the temporal and occipital lobes) for the latter. In contrast, participants from the cluster-derived normal subgroup exhibited an identical profile to CN controls in terms of cognitive performance, brain structure, and CSF biomarker levels. Our comprehensive data analytics strategy provides further evidence that multimodal neuropsychological subtyping is both clinically and neurobiologically meaningful.

963. Therapeutic implications of phosphorylation- and dephosphorylation-dependent factors of cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB) in neurodegeneration.
Abstract: Neurodegeneration is a condition of the central nervous system (CNS) characterized by loss of neural structures and function. The most common neurodegenerative disorders (NDDs) include Alzheimer's disease (AD), Huntington's disease (HD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Parkinson's disease (PD), multiple sclerosis (MS), motor neuron disorders, psychological disorders, dementia with vascular dementia (VaD), Lewy body dementia (DLB), epilepsy, cerebral ischemia, mental illness, and behavioral disorders. CREB (cAMP-response element-binding protein) represent a nuclear protein that regulates gene transcriptional activity. The primary focus of the review pertains to the exploration of CREB expression and activation within the context of neurodegenerative diseases, specifically in relation to the phosphorylation and dephosphorylation events that occur within the CREB signaling pathway under normal physiological conditions. The findings mentioned have contributed to the elucidation of the regulatory mechanisms governing CREB activity. Additionally, they have provided valuable insights into the potential mediation of diverse biological processes, such as memory consolidation and neuroprotective effects, by various related studies. The promotion of synaptic plasticity and neurodevelopment in the central nervous system through the targeting of CREB proteins has the potential to contribute to the prevention or delay of the onset of neurodegenerative disorders. Multiple drugs have been found to initiate downstream signaling pathways, leading to neuroprotective advantages in both animal model studies and clinical trials. The clinical importance of the cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB) is examined in this article, encompassing its utility as both a predictive/prognostic marker and a target for therapeutic interventions.

964. FABP7 drives an inflammatory response in human astrocytes and is upregulated in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common cause of dementia in the elderly, is characterized by the accumulation of intracellular neurofibrillary tangles, extracellular amyloid plaques, and neuroinflammation. In partnership with microglial cells, astrocytes are key players in the regulation of neuroinflammation. Fatty acid binding protein 7 (FABP7) belongs to a family of conserved proteins that regulate lipid metabolism, energy homeostasis, and inflammation. FABP7 expression is largely restricted to astrocytes and radial glia-like cells in the adult central nervous system. We observed that treatment of primary hippocampal astrocyte cultures with amyloid β fragment 25-35 (Aβ25-35) induces FABP7 upregulation. In addition, FABP7 expression is upregulated in the brain of APP/PS1 mice, a widely used AD mouse model. Co-immunostaining with specific astrocyte markers revealed increased FABP7 expression in astrocytes. Moreover, astrocytes surrounding amyloid plaques displayed increased FABP7 staining when compared to non-plaque-associated astrocytes. A similar result was obtained in the brain of AD patients. Whole transcriptome RNA sequencing analysis of human astrocytes differentiated from induced pluripotent stem cells (i-astrocytes) overexpressing FABP7 identified 500 transcripts with at least a 2-fold change in expression. Gene Ontology enrichment analysis identified (i) positive regulation of cytokine production and (ii) inflammatory response as the top two statistically significant overrepresented biological processes. We confirmed that wild-type FABP7 overexpression induces an NF-κB-driven inflammatory response in human i-astrocytes. On the other hand, the expression of a ligand-binding impaired mutant FABP7 did not induce NF-κB activation. Together, our results suggest that the upregulation of FABP7 in astrocytes could contribute to the neuroinflammation observed in AD.

965. Inhibition of Enzymes Involved in Neurodegenerative Disorders and Aβ1-40 Aggregation by Citrus limon Peel Polyphenol Extract.
Abstract: Alzheimer's (AD) and Parkinson's diseases (PD) are multifactorial neurogenerative disorders of the Central Nervous System causing severe cognitive and motor deficits in elderly people. Because treatment of AD and PD by synthetic drugs alleviates the symptoms often inducing side effects, many studies have aimed to find neuroprotective properties of diet polyphenols, compounds known to act on different cell signaling pathways. In this article, we analyzed the effect of polyphenols obtained from the agro-food industry waste of Citrus limon peel (LPE) on key enzymes of cholinergic and aminergic neurotransmission, such as butyryl cholinesterase (BuChE) and monoamine oxidases (MAO)-A/B, on Aβ1-40 aggregation and on superoxide dismutase (SOD) 1/2 that affect oxidative stress. In our in vitro assays, LPE acts as an enzyme inhibitor on BuChE (IC50 ~ 73 µM), MAO-A/B (IC50 ~ 80 µM), SOD 1/2 (IC50 ~ 10-20 µM) and interferes with Aβ1-40 peptide aggregation (IC50 ~ 170 µM). These results demonstrate that LPE behaves as a multitargeting agent against key factors of AD and PD by inhibiting to various extents BuChE, MAOs, and SODs and reducing Aβ-fibril aggregation. Therefore, LPE is a promising candidate for the prevention and management of AD and PD symptoms in combination with pharmacological therapies.

966. Two-Photon Fluorescent Probes for Amyloid-β Plaques Imaging In Vivo.
Abstract: Amyloid-β (Aβ) peptide deposition, hyperphosphorylated tau proteins, reactive astrocytes, high levels of metal ions, and upregulated monoamine oxidases are considered to be the primary pathological markers of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Among them, Aβ peptide deposition or Aβ plaques, is regarded as the initial factor in the pathogenesis of AD and a critical pathological hallmark in AD. This review highlights recently Aβ-specific fluorescent probes for two-photon imaging of Aβ plaques in vivo. It includes the synthesis and detection mechanism of probes, as well as their application to two-photon imaging of Aβ plaques in vivo.

967. Hericium coralloides Ameliorates Alzheimer's Disease Pathologies and Cognitive Disorders by Activating Nrf2 Signaling and Regulating Gut Microbiota.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is prone to onset and progression under oxidative stress conditions. Hericium coralloides (HC) is an edible medicinal fungus that contains various nutrients and possesses antioxidant properties. In the present study, the nutritional composition and neuroprotective effects of HC on APP/PS1 mice were examined. Behavioral experiments showed that HC improved cognitive dysfunction in APP/PS1 mice. Immunohistochemical and Western blotting results showed that HC reduced the levels of p-tau and amyloid-β deposition in the brain. By altering the composition of the gut microbiota, HC promoted the growth of short-chain fatty acid-producing bacteria and suppressed the growth of Helicobacter. Metabolomic results showed that HC decreased D-glutamic acid and oxidized glutathione levels. In addition, HC reduced the levels of reactive oxygen species, enhanced the secretion of superoxide dismutase, catalase, and glutathione peroxidase, inhibited the production of malondialdehyde and 4-hydroxynonenal, and activated the nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) signaling pathway. Collectively, HC demonstrated antioxidant activity by activating Nrf2 signaling and regulating gut microbiota, further exerting neuroprotective effects. This study confirms that HC has the potential to be a clinically effective AD therapeutic agent and offers a theoretical justification for both the development and use of this fungus.

968. Overview on the Polyphenol Avenanthramide in Oats (Avena sativa Linn.) as Regulators of PI3K Signaling in the Management of Neurodegenerative Diseases.
Abstract: Avenanthramides (Avns) and their derivatives, a group of polyphenolic compounds found abundantly in oats (Avena sativa Linn.), have emerged as promising candidates for neuroprotection due to their immense antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anti-apoptotic properties. Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs), characterized by the progressive degeneration of neurons, present a significant global health burden with limited therapeutic options. The phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) signaling pathway plays a crucial role in cell survival, growth, and metabolism, making it an attractive target for therapeutic intervention. The dysregulation of PI3K signaling has been implicated in the pathogenesis of various NDDs including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. Avns have been shown to modulate PI3K/AKT signaling, leading to increased neuronal survival, reduced oxidative stress, and improved cognitive function. This review explores the potential of Avn polyphenols as modulators of the PI3K signaling pathway, focusing on their beneficial effects against NDDs. Further, we outline the need for clinical exploration to elucidate the specific mechanisms of Avn action on the PI3K/AKT pathway and its potential interactions with other signaling cascades involved in neurodegeneration. Based on the available literature, using relevant keywords from Google Scholar, PubMed, Scopus, Science Direct, and Web of Science, our review emphasizes the potential of using Avns as a therapeutic strategy for NDDs and warrants further investigation and clinical exploration.

969. Association of Selenium Levels with Neurodegenerative Disease: A Systemic Review and Meta-Analysis.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative diseases (NDs) have posed significant challenges to public health, and it is crucial to understand their mechanisms in order to develop effective therapeutic strategies. Recent studies have highlighted the potential role of selenium in ND pathogenesis, as it plays a vital role in maintaining cellular homeostasis and preventing oxidative damage. However, a comprehensive analysis of the association between selenium and NDs is still lacking.

970. Modulation of microRNAs through Lifestyle Changes in Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Lifestyle factors, including diet and physical activity (PA), are known beneficial strategies to prevent and delay Alzheimer's disease (AD) development. Recently, microRNAs have emerged as potential biomarkers in multiple diseases, including AD. The aim of this review was to analyze the available information on the modulatory effect of lifestyle on microRNA expression in AD. Few studies have addressed this question, leaving important gaps and limitations: (1) in human studies, only circulating microRNAs were analyzed; (2) in mice studies, microRNA expression was only analyzed in brain tissue; (3) a limited number of microRNAs was analyzed; (4) no human nutritional intervention studies were conducted; and (5) PA interventions in humans and mice were poorly detailed and only included aerobic training. Despite this, some conclusions could be drawn. Circulating levels of let-7g-5p, miR-107, and miR-144-3p were associated with overall diet quality in mild cognitive impairment patients. In silico analysis showed that these microRNAs are implicated in synapse formation, microglia activation, amyloid beta accumulation, and pro-inflammatory pathways, the latter also being targeted by miR-129-5p and miR-192-5p, whose circulating levels are modified by PA in AD patients. PA also modifies miR-132, miR-15b-5p, miR-148b-3p, and miR-130a-5p expression in mice brains, which targets are related to the regulation of neuronal activity, ageing, and pro-inflammatory pathways. This supports the need to further explore lifestyle-related miRNA changes in AD, both as biomarkers and therapeutic targets.

971. Alzheimer's Disease: Causal Effect between Obesity and APOE Gene Polymorphisms.
Abstract: Currently studies on the correlation between obesity and Alzheimer's disease (AD) are still unclear. In addition, few indicators have been used to evaluate obesity, which has failed to comprehen-sively study the correlations between body fat mass, body fat distribution, and AD. Thus, this study innovatively utilized bioinformatics and Mendelian randomization (MR) to explore the key targets of obesity-induced AD, and investigate the causal associations between different types of obesity and key targets. The common targets of obesity and AD were screened using the GeneCards database, and functional and pathway annotations were carried out, thereby revealing the key target. MR analysis was conducted between body anthropometric indexes of obesity and the key target using an IVW model. Bioinformatics analysis revealed Apolipoprotein E (APOE) as the key target of obesity-induced AD. MR results showed that body mass index (BMI) had a negative causal association with APOE2, while body fat percentage (BFP) and trunk fat percentage (TFP) had no significant causal association with APOE2; BMI, BFP, and TFP had a negative causal association with APOE3, and none had any significant causal association with APOE4. In conclusion, there is a correlation between obesity and AD, which is mainly due to the polymorphism of the APOE gene rather than adipose tissue distribution. APOE3 carriers may be more susceptible to obesity, while the risk of AD caused by APOE2 and APOE4 may not be induced by obesity. This study sheds new light on current disputes. At the same time, it is suggested to regulate the body fat mass of APOE3 carriers in the early stage, and to reduce the risk of AD.

972. Can Genetic Markers Predict the Sporadic Form of Alzheimer's Disease? An Updated Review on Genetic Peripheral Markers.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia that affects millions of individuals worldwide. Although the research over the last decades has provided new insight into AD pathophysiology, there is currently no cure for the disease. AD is often only diagnosed once the symptoms have become prominent, particularly in the late-onset (sporadic) form of AD. Consequently, it is essential to further new avenues for early diagnosis. With recent advances in genomic analysis and a lower cost of use, the exploration of genetic markers alongside RNA molecules can offer a key avenue for early diagnosis. We have here provided a brief overview of potential genetic markers differentially expressed in peripheral tissues in AD cases compared to controls, as well as considering the changes to the dynamics of RNA molecules. By integrating both genotype and RNA changes reported in AD, biomarker profiling can be key for developing reliable AD diagnostic tools.

973. Hydroxytyrosol-Donepezil Hybrids Play a Protective Role in an In Vitro Induced Alzheimer's Disease Model and in Neuronal Differentiated Human SH-SY5Y Neuroblastoma Cells.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative pathology among progressive dementias, and it is characterized by the accumulation in the brain of extracellular aggregates of beta-amyloid proteins and neurofibrillary intracellular tangles consisting of τ-hyperphosphorylated proteins. Under normal conditions, beta-amyloid peptides exert important trophic and antioxidant roles, while their massive presence leads to a cascade of events culminating in the onset of AD. The fibrils of beta-amyloid proteins are formed by the process of fibrillogenesis that, starting from individual monomers of beta-amyloid, can generate polymers of this protein, constituting the hypothesis of the "amyloid cascade". To date, due to the lack of pharmacological treatment for AD without toxic side effects, chemical research is directed towards the realization of hybrid compounds that can act as an adjuvant in the treatment of this neurodegenerative pathology. The hybrid compounds used in this work include moieties of a hydroxytyrosol, a nitrohydroxytyrosol, a tyrosol, and a homovanillyl alcohol bound to the N-benzylpiperidine moiety of donepezil, the main drug used in AD. Previous experiments have shown different properties of these hybrids, including low toxicity and antioxidant and chelating activities. The purpose of this work was to test the effects of hybrid compounds mixed with Aβ1-40 to induce fibrillogenesis and mimic AD pathogenesis. This condition has been studied both in test tubes and by an in vitro model of neuronal differentiated human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells. The results obtained from test tube experiments showed that some hybrids inhibit the activity of the enzymes AChE, BuChE, and BACE-1. Cell experiments suggested that hybrids could inhibit fibrillogenesis, negatively modulating caspase-3. They were also shown to exert antioxidant effects, and the acetylated hybrids were found to be more functional and efficient than nonacetylated forms.

974. Tear Biomarkers and Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an age-related progressive neurodegenerative brain disorder that represents the most common type of dementia. It poses a significant diagnostic challenge that requires timely recognition and treatment. Currently, there is no effective therapy for AD; however, certain medications may slow down its progression. The discovery of AD biomarkers, namely, magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography and cerebrospinal fluid molecules (amyloid-β and tau) has advanced our understanding of this disease and has been crucial for identifying early neuropathologic changes prior to clinical changes and cognitive decline. The close interrelationship between the eye and the brain suggests that tears could be an interesting source of biomarkers for AD; however, studies in this area are limited. The identification of biomarkers in tears will enable the development of cost-effective, non-invasive methods of screening, diagnosis and disease monitoring. In order to use tears as a standard method for early and non-invasive diagnosis of AD, future studies need to be conducted on a larger scale.

975. Exploring the Skin Brain Link: Biomarkers in the Skin with Implications for Aging Research and Alzheimer's Disease Diagnostics.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), are challenging to diagnose. Currently the field must rely on imperfect diagnostic modalities. A recent study identified differences in several key bio-mechano-physiological parameters of the skin between AD patients and healthy controls. Here, we visually align these differences with the relevant histological, aging, and embryological paradigms to raise awareness for these potential biomarkers. In a study conducted by Wu et al., a series of n = 41 patients (n = 29 with AD and n = 12 healthy controls) were evaluated, demonstrating that AD patients exhibit a less acidic skin pH, increased skin hydration, and reduced skin elasticity compared to healthy controls. We constructed a visual overview and explored the relevant paradigms. We present a visual comparison of these factors, highlighting four paradigms: (1) the findings emphasize a shared ectodermal origin of the brain and the skin; (2) functional systems such as micro-vascularization, innervation, eccrine excretory functions, and the extracellular matrix undergo distinct changes in patients with AD; (3) the human skin mirrors the alterations in brain stiffness observed in aging studies; (4) assessment of physiological features of the skin is cost-effective, accessible, and easily amenable for monitoring and integration with cognitive assessment studies. Understanding the relationship between aging skin and aging brain is an exciting frontier, holding great promise for improved diagnostics. Further prospective and larger-scale investigations are needed to solidify the brain-skin link and determine the extent to which this relationship can be leveraged for diagnostic applications.

976. Preservation of Biomarkers Associated with Alzheimer's Disease (Amyloid Peptides 1-38, 1-40, 1-42, Tau Protein, Beclin 1) in the Blood of Neonates after Perinatal Asphyxia.
Abstract: Perinatal asphyxia is a complex disease involving massive death of brain cells in full-term newborns. The most impressive consequence of perinatal asphyxia is a neurodegenerative brain injury called hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy. Management of newborns after perinatal asphyxia is very difficult due to the lack of measurable biomarkers that would be able to assess the severity of the brain injury in the future, help in the selection of therapy, assess the results of treatment and determine the prognosis for the future. Thus, these limitations make long-term neurodevelopmental outcomes unpredictable during life. Quantifying biomarkers that can detect subclinical changes at a stage where routine brain monitoring or imaging is still mute would be a major advance in the care of neonates with brain neurodegeneration after asphyxia. Understanding the effect of perinatal asphyxia on changes in blood neurodegenerative biomarkers over time, which would be commonly used to assess the severity of postpartum encephalopathy, would be an important step in developing precision in predicting the consequences of brain injuries. We urgently need more accurate early predictive markers to guide clinicians when to use neuroprotective therapy. The needed neurodegenerative biomarkers may represent neuronal pathological changes that can be recognized by new technologies such as genomic and proteomic. Nevertheless, the simultaneous blood tau protein and various amyloid changes with the addition of an autophagy marker beclin 1 after perinatal asphyxia have not been studied. We decided to evaluate serum biomarkers of neuronal injury characteristic for Alzheimer's disease such as amyloid peptides (1-38, 1-40 and 1-42), tau protein and beclin 1, which can predict the progression of brain neurodegeneration in future. In this paper, we report for the first time the significant changes in the above molecules in the blood after asphyxia compared to healthy controls during the 1-7, 8-14 and 15+ days ELISA test.

977. Using Fatty Acid-Binding Proteins as Potential Biomarkers to Discriminate between Parkinson's Disease and Dementia with Lewy Bodies: Exploration of a Novel Technique.
Abstract: An increase in the global aging population is leading to an increase in age-related conditions such as dementia and movement disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). The accurate prediction of risk factors associated with these disorders is crucial for early diagnosis and prevention. Biomarkers play a significant role in diagnosing and monitoring diseases. In neurodegenerative disorders like α-synucleinopathies, specific biomarkers can indicate the presence and progression of disease. We previously demonstrated the pathogenic impact of fatty acid-binding proteins (FABPs) in α-synucleinopathies. Therefore, this study investigated FABPs as potential biomarkers for Lewy body diseases. Plasma FABP levels were measured in patients with AD, PD, DLB, and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and healthy controls. Plasma FABP3 was increased in all groups, while the levels of FABP5 and FABP7 tended to decrease in the AD group. Additionally, FABP2 levels were elevated in PD. A correlation analysis showed that higher FABP3 levels were associated with decreased cognitive function. The plasma concentrations of Tau, GFAP, NF-L, and UCHL1 correlated with cognitive decline. A scoring method was applied to discriminate between diseases, demonstrating high accuracy in distinguishing MCI vs. CN, AD vs. DLB, PD vs. DLB, and AD vs. PD. The study suggests that FABPs could serve as potential biomarkers for Lewy body diseases and aid in early disease detection and differentiation.

978. Calcium Dyshomeostasis Drives Pathophysiology and Neuronal Demise in Age-Related Neurodegenerative Diseases.
Abstract: This review postulates that age-related neurodegeneration entails inappropriate activation of intrinsic pathways to enable brain plasticity through deregulated calcium (Ca2+) signalling. Ca2+ in the cytosol comprises a versatile signal controlling neuronal cell physiology to accommodate adaptive structural and functional changes of neuronal networks (neuronal plasticity) and, as such, is essential for brain function. Although disease risk factors selectively affect different neuronal cell types across age-related neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs), these appear to have in common the ability to impair the specificity of the Ca2+ signal. As a result, non-specific Ca2+ signalling facilitates the development of intraneuronal pathophysiology shared by age-related NDDs, including mitochondrial dysfunction, elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels, impaired proteostasis, and decreased axonal transport, leading to even more Ca2+ dyshomeostasis. These core pathophysiological processes and elevated cytosolic Ca2+ levels comprise a self-enforcing feedforward cycle inevitably spiralling toward high levels of cytosolic Ca2+. The resultant elevated cytosolic Ca2+ levels ultimately gear otherwise physiological effector pathways underlying plasticity toward neuronal demise. Ageing impacts mitochondrial function indiscriminately of the neuronal cell type and, therefore, contributes to the feedforward cycle of pathophysiology development seen in all age-related NDDs. From this perspective, therapeutic interventions to safely restore Ca2+ homeostasis would mitigate the excessive activation of neuronal destruction pathways and, therefore, are expected to have promising neuroprotective potential.

979. The Relationships between Cerebrospinal Fluid Glial (CXCL12, CX3CL, YKL-40) and Synaptic Biomarkers (Ng, NPTXR) in Early Alzheimer's Disease.
Abstract: In addition to amyloid and tau pathology in the central nervous system (CNS), inflammatory processes and synaptic dysfunction are highly important mechanisms involved in the development and progression of dementia diseases. In the present study, we conducted a comparative analysis of selected pro-inflammatory proteins in the CNS with proteins reflecting synaptic damage and core biomarkers in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and early Alzheimer's disease (AD). To our knowledge, no studies have yet compared CXCL12 and CX3CL1 with markers of synaptic disturbance in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in the early stages of dementia. The quantitative assessment of selected proteins in the CSF of patients with MCI, AD, and non-demented controls (CTRL) was performed using immunoassays (single- and multiplex techniques). In this study, increased CSF concentration of CX3CL1 in MCI and AD patients correlated positively with neurogranin (r = 0.74; p < 0.001, and r = 0.40; p = 0.020, respectively), ptau181 (r = 0.49; p = 0.040), and YKL-40 (r = 0.47; p = 0.050) in MCI subjects. In addition, elevated CSF levels of CXCL12 in the AD group were significantly associated with mini-mental state examination score (r = -0.32; p = 0.040). We found significant evidence to support an association between CX3CL1 and neurogranin, already in the early stages of cognitive decline. Furthermore, our findings indicate that CXCL12 might be a useful marker for tract severity of cognitive impairment.

980. Extracellular Vesicles in Neurodegenerative Diseases: An Update.
Abstract: Neurodegenerative diseases affect millions of people worldwide. The likelihood of developing a neurodegenerative disease rises dramatically as life expectancy increases. Although it has drawn significant attention, there is still a lack of proper effective treatments for neurodegenerative disease because the mechanisms of its development and progression are largely unknown. Extracellular vesicles (EVs) are small bi-lipid layer-enclosed nanosized particles in tissues and biological fluids. EVs are emerging as novel intercellular messengers and regulate a series of biological responses. Increasing evidence suggests that EVs are involved in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative disorders. In this review, we summarize the recent findings of EVs in neurodegenerative diseases and bring up the limitations in the field.

981. Advances in Alzheimer's Disease-Associated Aβ Therapy Based on Peptide.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) urgently needs innovative treatments due to the increasing aging population and lack of effective drugs and therapies. The amyloid fibrosis of AD-associated β-amyloid (Aβ) that could induce a series of cascades, such as oxidative stress and inflammation, is a critical factor in the progression of AD. Recently, peptide-based therapies for AD are expected to be great potential strategies for the high specificity to the targets, low toxicity, fast blood clearance, rapid cell and tissue permeability, and superior biochemical characteristics. Specifically, various chiral amino acids or peptide-modified interfaces draw much attention as effective manners to inhibit Aβ fibrillation. On the other hand, peptide-based inhibitors could be obtained through affinity screening such as phage display or by rational design based on the core sequence of Aβ fibrosis or by computer aided drug design based on the structure of Aβ. These peptide-based therapies can inhibit Aβ fibrillation and reduce cytotoxicity induced by Aβ aggregation and some have been shown to relieve cognition in AD model mice and reduce Aβ plaques in mice brains. This review summarizes the design method and characteristics of peptide inhibitors and their effect on the amyloid fibrosis of Aβ. We further describe some analysis methods for evaluating the inhibitory effect and point out the challenges in these areas, and possible directions for the design of AD drugs based on peptides, which lay the foundation for the development of new effective drugs in the future.

982. Glutathione-Mediated Neuroprotective Effect of Purine Derivatives.
Abstract: Numerous basic studies have reported on the neuroprotective properties of several purine derivatives such as caffeine and uric acid (UA). Epidemiological studies have also shown the inverse association of appropriate caffeine intake or serum urate levels with neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD). The well-established neuroprotective mechanisms of caffeine and UA involve adenosine A2A receptor antagonism and antioxidant activity, respectively. Our recent study found that another purine derivative, paraxanthine, has neuroprotective effects similar to those of caffeine and UA. These purine derivatives can promote neuronal cysteine uptake through excitatory amino acid carrier protein 1 (EAAC1) to increase neuronal glutathione (GSH) levels in the brain. This review summarizes the GSH-mediated neuroprotective effects of purine derivatives. Considering the fact that GSH depletion is a manifestation in the brains of AD and PD patients, administration of purine derivatives may be a new therapeutic approach to prevent or delay the onset of these neurodegenerative diseases.

983. Identification of Plasma Proteins as Biomarkers for Mild Cognitive Impairment and Alzheimer's Disease Using Liquid Chromatography-Tandem Mass Spectrometry.
Abstract: Blood proteins can be used for biomarkers to monitor the progression of cognitive decline, even in the early stages of disease. In this study, we developed a liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS)-based blood test to identify plasma proteins that can be used to detect mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Using this system, we quantified plasma proteins using isotope-labeled synthetic peptides. A total of 192 patients, including 63 with AD, 71 with MCI, and 58 non-demented controls (NDCs), were analyzed. Multinomial regression and receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analyses were performed to identify specific combinations of plasma protein panels that could differentiate among NDCs, those with MCI, and those with AD. We identified eight plasma protein biomarker candidates that can be used to distinguish between MCI and AD. These biomarkers were associated with coagulation pathways, innate immunity, lipid metabolism, and nutrition. The clinical potential to differentiate cognitive impairment from NDC was assessed using area under the curve values from ROC analysis, which yielded values of 0.83 for males and 0.71 for females. This LC-MS-based plasma protein panel allows the pathophysiology of AD to be followed through detection of cognitive decline and disease progression markers.

984. APOE ε4 Gene Carriers Demonstrate Reduced Retinal Capillary Densities in Asymptomatic Older Adults.
Abstract: Early identification of Apolipoprotein E (APOE)-related microvascular pathology will help to study the microangiopathic contribution to Alzheimer's disease and provide a therapeutic target for early intervention. To evaluate the differences in retinal microvasculature parameters between APOE ε4 carriers and non-carriers, asymptomatic older adults aged ≥ 55 years underwent APOE ε4 genotype analysis, neuropsychological examination, and optical coherence tomography angiography (OCTA) imaging. One hundred sixty-three older adults were included in the data analysis. Participants were also defined as cognitively impaired (CI) and non-cognitively impaired (NCI) according to their MoCA scores and educational years. APOE ε4 carriers demonstrated reduced SVC (p = 0.023) compared to APOE ε4 non-carriers. Compared to NCI, CI participants showed reduced SVC density (p = 0.006). In the NCI group, no significant differences (p > 0.05) were observed in the microvascular densities between APOE ε4 carriers and non-carriers. In the CI group, APOE ε4 carriers displayed reduced microvascular densities compared to non-carriers (SVC, p = 0.006; DVC, p = 0.048). We showed that CI and APOE ε4 affect retinal microvasculature in older adults. Quantitative measures of the retinal microvasculature could serve as surrogates for brain microcirculation, providing an opportunity to study microvascular contributions to AD.

985. Does Music Intervention Improve Anxiety in Dementia Patients? A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis of Randomized Controlled Trials.
Abstract: Music interventions (MIs) have been widely used to relieve anxiety in dementia in clinical settings. However, limited meta-analysis with randomized controlled trials (RCTs) on this topic has been conducted so far. A systematic search was conducted in four major databases (PubMed, EMBASE, Web of Science, and Cochrane Library) for data provided by RCTs from the inception to February 2023. The search strategy employed the terms "anxiety AND music AND dementia OR Alzheimer's disease". Thirteen RCTs (827 participants) were included. The results showed MI reduced anxiety significantly (SMD = -0.67, p < 0.001), especially for Alzheimer's disease (p = 0.007) and Mixed (p < 0.001)-type dementia. Moreover, significant improvements in agitation (p = 0.021) and depression (p < 0.001) in dementia were observed. Additionally, several psychological mechanisms which may be associated with MI were reviewed comprehensively. In conclusion, our findings support the efficacy of MI in alleviating anxiety symptoms in dementia patients. PROSPERO Registration (ID: CRD42021276646).

986. Analysis of Physical-Cognitive Tasks Including Feedback-Based Technology for Alzheimer's Disorder in a Randomized Experimental Pilot Study.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease causes great changes, with the prefrontal cortex being the most frequently damaged zone; these changes affect physical and cognitive behavior and compromise autonomy.

987. Diagnostic and prognostic value of cerebrospinal fluid SNAP-25 and neurogranin in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in a clinical setting cohort of rapidly progressive dementias.
Abstract: The levels of synaptic markers synaptosomal-associated protein 25 (SNAP-25) and neurogranin (Ng) have been shown to increase early in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of patients with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) and to have prognostic potential. However, no validation studies assessed these biomarkers' diagnostic and prognostic value in a large clinical setting cohort of rapidly progressive dementia.

988. REM sleep is associated with the volume of the cholinergic basal forebrain in aMCI individuals.
Abstract: Rapid-eye movement (REM) sleep highly depends on the activity of cholinergic basal forebrain (BF) neurons and is reduced in Alzheimer's disease. Here, we investigated the associations between the volume of BF nuclei and REM sleep characteristics, and the impact of cognitive status on these links, in late middle-aged and older participants.

989. Lipid metabolism transcriptomics of murine microglia in Alzheimer's disease and neuroinflammation.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the accumulation of amyloid-β (Aβ) plaques followed by intracellular neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) composed of hyperphosphorylated tau. An unrestrained immune response by microglia, the resident cells of the central nervous system (CNS), leads to neuroinflammation which can amplify AD pathology. AD pathology is also driven by metabolic dysfunction with strong correlations between dementia and metabolic disorders such as diabetes, hypercholesterolemia, and hypertriglyceridemia. Since elevated cholesterol and triglyceride levels appear to be a major risk factor for developing AD, we investigated the lipid metabolism transcriptome in an AD versus non-AD state using RNA-sequencing (RNA-seq) and microarray datasets from N9 cells and murine microglia. We identified 52 differentially expressed genes (DEG) linked to lipid metabolism in LPS-stimulated N9 microglia versus unstimulated control cells using RNA-seq, 86 lipid metabolism DEG in 5XFAD versus wild-type mice by microarray, with 16 DEG common between both datasets. Functional enrichment and network analyses identified several biological processes and molecular functions, such as cholesterol homeostasis, insulin signaling, and triglyceride metabolism. Furthermore, therapeutic drugs targeting lipid metabolism DEG found in our study were identified. Focusing on drugs that target genes associated with lipid metabolism and neuroinflammation could provide new targets for AD drug development.

990. Predictors of galcanezumab response in a real-world study of Korean patients with migraine.
Abstract: To assess factors associated with galcanezumab response in a real-world study of Korean patients with migraine. Predictors of the efficacy of monoclonal antibodies targeting calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) or its receptor (anti-CGRP(-R) mAb) have been rarely investigated in Asians. We prospectively recruited and followed up patients with migraine who received monthly galcanezumab treatment in a single university hospital from June 2020 to October 2021. We defined the treatment response with ≥ 50% reduction in moderate/severe headache days in the 3rd month of treatment compared to baseline. Responders and non-responders were compared in terms of demographics, disease characteristics and severity, and previous response to migraine prophylactic treatments. Potential predictors of anti-CGRP(-R) mAb response were tested by using the univariable and multivariable logistic regression analyses. Among 104 patients (81.7% female; mean age 42.0 ± 13.02; 76.9% chronic migraine; and 45.5% medication overuse headache) included, 58 (55.7%) were responders. Non-responders had more chronic migraine, medication overuse headache, monthly headache days, days with acute medication, and daily headaches (i.e. chronic migraine persisting everyday without remission). The multivariable logistic analysis showed chronic migraine (OR 0.05 [95% CI 0.00-0.82], p = 0.036) and the number of previously failed preventive medication classes (OR 0.55 [95% CI 0.33-0.92], p = 0.024] were independently associated with treatment response. Chronic migraine and multiple failures from preventive medication are associated with poor galcanezumab response. Further studies are needed to investigate if earlier treatment before disease chronification or multiple failures may lead to a greater therapeutic gain from anti-CGRP(-R) mAb treatment.

991. Multi-omic atlas of the parahippocampal gyrus in Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia worldwide, with a projection of 151 million cases by 2050. Previous genetic studies have identified three main genes associated with early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease, however this subtype accounts for less than 5% of total cases. Next-generation sequencing has been well established and holds great promise to assist in the development of novel therapeutics as well as biomarkers to prevent or slow the progression of this devastating disease. Here we present a public resource of functional genomic data from the parahippocampal gyrus of 201 postmortem control, mild cognitively impaired (MCI) and AD individuals from the Mount Sinai brain bank, of which whole-genome sequencing (WGS), and bulk RNA sequencing (RNA-seq) were previously published. The genomic data include bulk proteomics and DNA methylation, as well as cell-type-specific RNA-seq and assay for transposase-accessible chromatin with high-throughput sequencing (ATAC-seq) data. We have performed extensive preprocessing and quality control, allowing the research community to access and utilize this public resource available on the Synapse platform at https://doi.org/10.7303/syn51180043.2 .

992. Cellular specificity is key to deciphering epigenetic changes underlying Alzheimer's disease.
Abstract: Different cell types in the brain play distinct roles in Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression. Late onset AD (LOAD) is a complex disease, with a large genetic component, but many risk loci fall in non-coding genome regions. Epigenetics implicates the non-coding genome with control of gene expression. The epigenome is highly cell-type specific and dynamically responds to the environment. Therefore, epigenetic mechanisms are well placed to explain genetic and environmental factors that are associated with AD. However, given this cellular specificity, purified cell populations or single cells need to be profiled to avoid effect masking. Here we review the current state of cell-type specific genome-wide profiling in LOAD, covering DNA methylation (CpG, CpH, and hydroxymethylation), histone modifications, and chromatin changes. To date, these data reveal that distinct cell types contribute and react differently to AD progression through epigenetic alterations. This review addresses the current gap in prior bulk-tissue derived work by spotlighting cell-specific changes that govern the complex interplay of cells throughout disease progression and are critical in understanding and developing effective treatments for AD.

993. Genetic model of selective COX2 inhibition improve learning and memory ability and brain pathological changes in 5xFAD mouse.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disease that leads to dementia. Its pathogenesis is very complex, and inflammation is one of the main pathophysiological mechanisms of AD. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), which mainly target cyclooxygenase (COX) activity, are used to reduce the risk of AD, but several side effects limit their application. Here we assess the effect of Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX2) catalytic activity on learning ability and AD pathology using 5x Familial Alzheimer's Disease (FAD) mice with COX2 inhibition (5xFAD/COX2 KO), 5xFAD mice with cyclooxygenase inactivation of COX2 (5xFAD/COX2 Y385F), and 5xFAD mice with peroxidase (POX) inactivation of COX2 (5xFAD/COX2) H374Y), respectively. Our results indicate that learning ability of COX2 KO and mutants is improved compared to 5xFAD mice, further investigations show that Aβ depositions are reduced, microglia and astrocytes homeostasis are changed in COX2 KO and mutants. Especially, there is more responsive microglia in the brain of 5xFAD/COX2 Y385F mice, and Aβ depositions are more effectively cleaned at old age. Taken together, these results identify a role of COX2 Y385F in regulating microglia function and may have important implications for future treatment of AD.

994. Injection of exogenous amyloid-β oligomers aggravated cognitive deficits, and activated necroptosis, in APP23 transgenic mice.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease that is characterized by the loss of synapses and neurons in the brain, and the accumulation of amyloid plaques. Aβ oligomers (AβO) play a critical role in the pathogenesis of AD. Although there is increasing evidence to support the involvement of necroptosis in the pathogenesis of AD, the exact mechanism remains elusive. In the present study, we explored the effect of exogenous AβO injection on cell necroptosis and cognitive deficits in APP23 transgenic mice. We found that intrahippocampal injection of AβO accelerated the development of AD pathology and caused cognitive impairment in APP23 mice. Specifically, AβO injection significantly accelerated the accumulation of AβO and increased the expression level of phosphorylated-tau, and also induced necroptosis. Behavioral tests showed that AβO injection was associated with cognitive impairment. Furthermore, necroptosis induced by AβO injection occurred predominantly in microglia of the AD brain. We speculate that AβO increased necroptosis by activating microglia, resulting in cognitive deficits. Our results may aid in an understanding of the role played by AβO in AD from an alternative perspective and provide new ideas and evidence for necroptosis as a potential intervention and therapeutic target for AD.

995. ELectronic Archimedes spiral Neural Network (ELANN).
Abstract: The Archimedes spiral is a clinical tool that aids in the diagnosis and monitoring of essential tremor. However, spiral ratings may vary based on experience and training of the rating physician. This study sought to generate an objective standard model for tremor evaluation using convolutional neural networks. One senior movement disorders neurologist (Neurologist 1) with over 30 years of clinical experience used the Bain and Findley Spirography Rating Scale to rate 1653 Archimedes spiral images from 46 essential tremor patients (mild to severe tremor) and 75 control subjects (no to mild tremor). Neurologist 1's labels were used as the reference standard to train the model. After training the model, a randomly selected subset of spiral testing data was re-evaluated by Neurologist 1, by a second senior movement disorders neurologist (Neurologist 2) with over 27 years of clinical experience, and by our model. Cohen's Weighted Kappa 95% confidence intervals were calculated from all rater comparisons to determine if our model performs with the same proficiency as two senior movement disorders neurologists. The Cohen's Weighted Kappa 95% confidence intervals for the agreement between the reference standard scores and Neurologist 1's rerated scores, for the agreement between the reference standard scores and Neurologist 2's scores, and for the agreement between the reference standard scores and our model's scores were 0.93-0.98, 0.86-0.94, and 0.89-0.96, respectively. With overlapping Cohen's Weighted Kappa 95% confidence intervals for all agreement comparisons, we demonstrate that our model evaluates spirals with the same proficiency as two senior movement disorders neurologists.

996. The Use of Verbal and Nonverbal Memory Tests for Alzheimer's Disease Screening in Taiwan Chinese.
Abstract: Patients with Alzheimer's disease typically have initial deficits in memory. Memory testing can be categorized as verbal or nonverbal by the modality of the stimuli used. We compared the discriminative validity of selected verbal and nonverbal memory tests between non-dementia and Alzheimer's disease in Taiwan. Ninety-eight patients with mild Alzheimer's disease and 269 non-dementia individuals underwent story recall test (immediate and delayed recall), and constructional praxis test (copy and delayed recall). The receiver-operating characteristic curve and area under the curve were evaluated to compare between tests. Patients with Alzheimer's disease performed poorly across all memory tests, and the receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis indicated that story recall immediate and relayed recall, and constructional praxis delayed recall had good classification accuracy with area under the curve of .90, .87 and .87 respectively. These results provide support that both verbal and nonverbal memory tests are reliable measure for screening patients with Alzheimer's disease.

997. Pathogenesis of Alzheimer's Disease and Diversity of 1,2,3-Triazole Scaffold in Drug Development: Design Strategies, Structural Insights, and Therapeutic Potential.
Abstract: Alzheimer's disease is a most prevalent form of dementia all around the globe and currently poses a significant challenge to the healthcare system. Currently available drugs only slow the progression of this disease rather than provide proper containment. Identification of multiple targets responsible for this disease in the last three decades established it as a multifactorial neurodegenerative disorder that needs novel multifunctional agents for its management and the possible reason for the failure of currently available single target clinical drugs. 1,2,3-Triazole is a miraculous nucleus in medicinal chemistry and the first choice for development of multifunctional hybrid molecules. Apart from that, it is an integral component of various drugs in clinical trials as well as in clinical practice. This review is focused on the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease and 1,2,3-triazole containing derivatives developed in recent decades as potential anti-Alzheimer's agents. The review will provide (A) precise insight of various established targets of Alzheimer's disease including cholinergic, amyloid, tau, monoamine oxidases, glutamate, calcium, and reactive oxygen species hypothesis and (B) design hypothesis, structure-activity relationships, and pharmacological outcomes of 1,2,3-triazole containing multifunctional anti-Alzheimer's agents. This review will provide a baseline for various research groups working on Alzheimer's drug development in designing potent, safer, and effective multifunctional anti-Alzheimer's candidates of the future.

998. Dissociation process of polyalanine aggregates by free electron laser irradiation.
Abstract: Polyalanine (polyA) disease-causative proteins with an expansion of alanine repeats can be aggregated. Although curative treatments for polyA diseases have not been explored, the dissociation of polyA aggregates likely reduces the cytotoxicity of polyA. Mid-infrared free electron laser (FEL) successfully dissociated multiple aggregates. However, whether the FEL dissociates polyA aggregates like other aggregates has not been tested. Here, we show that FEL at 6.1 μm experimentally weakened the extent of aggregation of a peptide with 13 alanine repeats (13A), and the irradiated 13A exerted lesser cytotoxicity to neuron-like cells than non-irradiated 13A. Then, we applied molecular dynamics (MD) simulation to follow the dissociation process by FEL. We successfully observed how the intermolecular β-sheet of polyA aggregates was dissociated and separated into monomers with helix structures upon FEL irradiation. After the dissociation by FEL, water molecules inhibited the reformation of polyA aggregates. We recently verified the same dissociation process using FEL-treated amyloid-β aggregates. Thus, a common mechanism underlies the dissociation of different protein aggregates that cause different diseases, polyA disease and Alzheimer's disease. However, MD simulation indicated that polyA aggregates are less easily dissociated than amyloid-β aggregates and require longer laser irradiation due to hydrophobic alanine repeats.

999. Automatic Segmentation of Retinal Layers in Multiple Neurodegenerative Disorder Scenarios.
Abstract: Retinal Optical Coherence Tomography (OCT) allows the non-invasive direct observation of the central nervous system, enabling the measurement and extraction of biomarkers from neural tissue that can be helpful in the assessment of ocular, systemic and Neurological Disorders (ND). Deep learning models can be trained to segment the retinal layers for biomarker extraction. However, the onset of ND can have an impact on the neural tissue, which can lead to the degraded performance of models not exposed to images displaying signs of disease during training. We present a fully automatic approach for the retinal layer segmentation in multiple neurodegenerative disorder scenarios, using an annotated dataset of patients of the most prevalent NDs: Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis and essential tremor, along with healthy control patients. Furthermore, we present a two-part, comprehensive study on the effects of ND on the performance of these models. The results show that images of healthy patients may not be sufficient for the robust training of automated segmentation models intended for the analysis of ND patients, and that using images representative of different NDs can increase the model performance. These results indicate that the presence or absence of patients of ND in datasets should be taken into account when training deep learning models for retinal layer segmentation, and that the proposed approach can provide a valuable tool for the robust and reliable diagnosis in multiple scenarios of ND.

1000. Detailed Assessment of 18F-THK5351 Distribution Pattern in the Midbrain: Comparison With Progressive Supranuclear Palsy and Corticobasal Syndrome.
Abstract: 18F-THK5351 PET is used to image ongoing astrogliosis by estimating monoamine oxidase B levels. 18F-THK5351 preferentially accumulates around the substantia nigra (SN) and periaqueductal gray (PG) in the midbrain under healthy conditions and exhibits a "trimodal pattern." In progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and corticobasal syndrome (CBS), the midbrain 18F-THK5351 uptake can be increased by astrogliosis, collapsing the "trimodal pattern." We aimed to elucidate cases in which the "trimodal pattern" collapses in PSP and CBS.

